AMULYA KOMATINENI 515309-1612 amulya.javadevelopergmail.com 8 years of experience in IT industry worked in all phases of software development life cycle from requirements gathering to the production and successfully implemented several projects. PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY Expert working knowledge in using methodologies Agile Methodology  Software Development Life Cycle. Having work experience in different domains like Healthcare, Banking, Finance, Telecom, and Retail. Developed applications using Java8 features like lambda expressions and functional interfaces. Proficient in developing front-end systems with JavaScript, ReactJs, JQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, Tag Libraries, Custom Tags and JavaScript frameworks such as AngularJS, NodeJS. Experienced in Client-side validations using Ajax in NodeJS, AngularJS, dash boards reports using BackboneJS. Expert in JavaJ2EE technologies such as Struts, Spring Framework, JSP, EJB, Hibernate and Webservice. Developed applications with Spring using technologies Spring Core, MVC, DAO, ORM, Boot, Heroku, Security, Integration, Spring Zuul, Spring Eureka, Spring Hystrix, Spring Ribbon. Used Spring Boot Acurator to monitor and manage your application and to interact with different HTTP endpoints such as health, bean details, version details, configurations. Build, Test and developed application from Docker containers and deployed into PCF environment. Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping , MyBatis SQL Maps, Slick, and Java Ultra-Lite Persistence. Expertise in back-endserver side Java technologies such as webservice, JPA, JMS, JDBC. Expert in using SOA and Webservice Technologies and Tools like Webservice, SOAP, REST, UDDI, SOAP UI. Experience in XML related technologies like XML, DTD, XSL, XSLT, XPATH, JAXB, JAXP, SAX and DOM Parsers. Adapt in server side development skills using Apache and good knowledge of database connectivity Data Source for SQL databases like Oracle, MySQL and NoSQL like MongoDB, Cassandra. MongoDB is used to develop dynamic queries on documents using a document based query language. Expertise in using Cassandra for achieving denormalization through features like collections. Hands on experience on Amazon Webservice provisioning and good knowledge of AWS services like EC2, S3, Elastic Beanstalk, ELB Load Balancers, RDS, VPC, Route53, Cloud Watch, Cloud Formation, IAM, SNS. Used Microservice with Spring Boot through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers. Expertise in Microservice using Spring, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud to develop loosely coupled processes. Expertise in deploy J2EE applications on IBM WebSphereWeb Logic Application Servers, Tomcat and JBOSS. Used Scala for anonymous functions to increase productivity, applications scalability, and reliability. Familiar with Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory Design, MVC, Data Access Objects, , Adapter, Service Locator, Session Facade, Observer, DAO, service proxy and circuit breaker. Used Apigee for enterprise business use APIs to securely share data and services across various devices. Expertise in Docker containers, leveraging Linux Containers and AMIs to create DockerImagescontainers. Used Swagger for designing and describing APIs and for keeping the API design and documentation in sync. Expertise in working on building tools like ANT, Maven, Gradle, Groovy, Log4j . Worked with Version Control Systems like GIT, WinCVS, CVS, SVN, VSS and Rational Clear Case. Experience in Webservice Technologies like SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and Restful. Experience in various Agile methodologies like Test Driven Development, SCRUM, and Pair Programming. Developing Unit  Integration testing with JUnit, Karma, Jenkins, Camel, Selenium, Jasmine and Mockito. Used Selenium as an automated testing for web applications across different browser and platforms. Technical Skills PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Client Liberty Mutual, Dover, NH September 2017  Till Date Role JAVA Full Stack Developer Description Liberty Mutual is an insurance company which offers auto  vehicle insurance, property insurance, life insurance and other insurances where user can manage their policies and file claims online. Company have few external partners where they upload and download necessary data. Our project is to process the transfer of file. Customer and Admin portals are used to trace and configure the transfer. Web Based File TransferWBFT is developed to interact with liberty mutual teams by external trading partners using user interface. Responsibilities Upgraded existing UI with HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Ajax, and Bootstrap with ReactJS interaction. Used various JQuery and Bootstrap plug-in like date picker, Bootstrap selectors, and Gulp as a task runner. Used Node Package ManagerNPM online repository to install and update the dependencies. Built REST by building NodeJS in the back-end to handle requests sent from the jQuery Ajax calls. Used Java 8 Lambda expressions to facilitate functional programming and for simplifying the development. Developed classes using core java concepts like Multithreading, Concurrency, Memory Management. Used Multithreading to develop various helper classes in programming to improve overall performance. Used Spring Boot Actuator to externalize applications configuration properties for various environments. Configured Swagger-UI registered Microservice with Eureka to monitor services from Spring Boot console. Used NGINX as a reverse proxy with the Spring Netflix components like Eureka, Ribbon, and Spring Cloud. Developed microservices with Spring Eureka to retrieve API routes and Implemented Spring Circuit breaker pattern, integrated Hystrix dashboard to monitor Spring microservice. Defined Hibernate Named Queries for Batch operations while defined Criteria Queries for Microservice. Microservice have been built using Spring Boot, Spring security and deployed to AWS cloud. Used Spring Cloud AWS Core, Spring Cloud AWS Context, and Spring Cloud AWS Messaging. Utilized AWS Lambda platform to upload data into AWS S3 buckets and to trigger Lambda Functions Including EC2. Developed Spring Bach for AWS S3 rules like User Creation, Folder Permission, and deletion of file Used PLSQL and Oracle databases to store the information about the file transaction, sender, and receiver. Developed several REST webservice which produces both XML and JSON to perform tasks, leveraged by both web and mobile applications. RESTful webservice using Jersey for JAX-RS implementation. Exposed and consumed SOAP based Webservice to communicate between systems. Developed several SOAPS based JAX-WS Webservice interfaces for integrating multiple systems, code re-usability and JMeter to test performance of SOAP protocol. Used Apache Kafka for building real time data pipelines and for storing data in a distributed cluster. Experience in working with messaging systems like Kafka, Event Sourcing, and Active MQ. Used SOAP UI for Functional Testing, Performance Testing, Regression Testing and to test REST  SOAP. Used Datahub dashboard to search and filter the transactions and used elastic search as a search engine. Created and configured new JIRA projects and worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA projects. Developed Unit test cases using Junit, Mockito and Bamboo for continuous integration. Used Docker to collaborate code, run and deliver more securely for both Linux, Windows Server. Used log4j for logging and GIT, SVN for project management and version management. Functional testing of the front-end applications is done using Selenium IDE and Web Driver. Created Clusters and instances in WebSphere 7.0 Network Deployment to support high availability, fail over and implemented horizontal clustering. Environment J2EE, ReactJs, jQuery, CSS3, HTML5, Ajax, NodeJS, Gulp, Core Java, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Security, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Microservice, Eureka Server, NGINX, Swagger-UI, Apache Kafka, AWS Cloud, AWS Lambda, S3, EC2, Scala, Datahub, REST Webservice, JAX-WS, SOAP UI, JDBC, PLSQL, ActiveMQ, JIRA, Bamboo, SVN, GIT, log4j, Junit, Selenium, JMS Queues, WebSphere. Client Express Scripts, St. Louis, MO April 2016  August 2017 Role JAVA Full Stack Developer Description Express Scripts provides integrated pharmacy benefit management services including network-pharmacy, claims processing, home delivery pharmacy services, specialty pharmacy benefit management through its subsidiary Accredit, benefit-design consultation, drug-utilization review, formulary management, medical and drug data analysis services to manage drug plans for health plans, self-insured employers and government agencies both as administrator of employee benefits and public assistance programs. Responsibilities Designed Prototype and project layout skeletons using AngularJS, JQuery, CSS3 and HTML5. Involved in designing and developed presentation layer using Ajax, jQuery, and third-party libraries. Used various JQuery and Bootstrap plug-in like date picker, Bootstrap selectors. Used Apache Cordova to build native mobile applications using HTML5, CSS3 and Javascript. XQuery provides the means to extract and manipulate data from XML documents or any data source that can be viewed as XML. Used Adobe Experience managerAEM to manage and deliver digital experiences across websites. Used Groovy for various markup languages such as XML, HTML, and support for regular expressions. Used Java 8 Lambda expressions to facilitate functional programming and for simplifying the development. Used Java8 Stream API for Parallel execution in the Collections framework module of core java. Developed classes using core java concepts like Multithreading, Concurrency, Memory Management. Used Multithreading to develop various helper classes in programming to improve overall performance. Used Spring DI, annotations, and MVC to implement business layer and navigation part of application. Used Spring Boot Actuator to externalize applications configuration properties for various environments. Configured Swagger-UI registered Microservice with Eureka to monitor services from Spring Boot console. Defined Hibernate Named Queries for Batch operations while defined Criteria Queries for Microservice. Microservice have been built using Spring Boot, Spring security and deployed to AWS cloud. Used Spring Cloud AWS Core, Spring Cloud AWS Context, and Spring Cloud AWS Messaging. Utilized AWS Lambda platform to upload data into AWS S3 buckets and to trigger other Lambda Functions Including EC2, MongoDB focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling. Database required for creation of new tables, PLSQL stored procedures, functions, views, indexes, constraints, triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application. Used Cassandra to handle huge amount of data across many servers with out single point of failure. Implemented service layer on the top of Cassandra using Core Java, Data Sax API and Restful API. Used PostgreSQL for multi version concurrency control and transaction. Developed several REST webservice which produces both XML and JSON to perform tasks, leveraged by both web and mobile applications. RESTful webservice using Jersey for JAX-RS implementation. Exposed and consumed SOAP based Webservice to communicate between systems. Developed several SOAPS based JAX-WS Webservice interfaces for integrating multiple systems, code re-usability and JMeter to test performance of SOAP protocol. Used Redis as in memory database, for storing and fetching data in memory to increase the performance. Used Apache Kafka for building real time data pipelines and for storing data in a distributed cluster. Worked on Drools Rule Engines with corresponding to validate the business User Roles. Used SOAP UI for Functional Testing, Performance Testing, Regression Testing and to test REST  SOAP. Used Apigee for web-scale, enterprise flexibility on premise and hybrid deployment on single code base. Created and configured new JIRA projects and worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA projects. Developed Unit test cases using Junit, Mockito and Jenkins for continuous integration. Used Apache Camel for integrating different applications with the enterprise design pattern. Used Kubernetes for automating deployment, scaling and management of containerized applications. Used Docker to collaborate code, run and deliver more securely for both Linux, Windows Server. Developed Maven scripts and builds using Maven and continuous integration servers like Jenkins. Used log4j for logging and GIT, SVN for project management and version management. Functional testing of the front-end applications is done using Selenium IDE and Web Driver. Developed, Tested and Debugged the Java, JSP using Eclipse RCP. Created Clusters and instances in WebSphere 7.0 Network Deployment to support high availability, fail over and implemented horizontal clustering. Environment J2EE, AngularJS, jQuery, CSS3, HTML5, Ajax, Core Java, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Microservice, Eureka Server, Swagger-UI, Apache Kafka, AWS Cloud, AWS Lambda, S3, EC2, Scala, MongoDB, REST Webservice, JAX-WS, SOAP UI, JDBC, PLSQL, PostgreSQL,JIRA, GIT, SVN, log4j, Maven, Apache Camel, Junit, Mockito, Jenkins, JMS Queues. Client Commerce Bank, Kansas City, MO Jan 2015  Mar 2016 Role Sr. JAVAJ2EE Developer  Full Stack Developer Description The project was to enhance the existing online application with AC Information, Funds Transfer, Payment Service, Credit Card Services, Investment Services, Rates Online Application Forms, and Customer Service. Development was based on Spring MVC architecture. Responsibilities Followed Agile software development paired programming, Test Driven Development, and Scrum meetings. Developed using new features of Java 1.8 annotations, Generics, enhanced for loop and Enums. Upgraded existing UI with HTML5, CSS3, jQuery and Bootstrap with AngularJS interaction. Developed Single page application and structured the JavaScript code using AngularJS framework including MVC architectures, different modules, specific controllers, templates, custom directives, and custom filters. Worked with java Swing GUI controls for developing a module in the front-end part. Used Java-J2EE patterns like Model View Controller, Singleton, Data Access Objects, factory patterns. Used Core Java concept like Multithreading, Concurrency for performance and memory tuning. Used Spring Framework AOP Module to implement logging in the application for application status. Spring MVC Framework IOC design pattern is used to have relationships between application components. Developed microservices with Spring Eureka to retrieve API routes and Implemented Spring Circuit breaker pattern, integrated Hystrix dashboard to monitor Spring microservice. Developed Spring Quartz jobs to run the backend jobs and generated reports. Used Hibernate for back end development and Spring dependency injection for middle layer development. Developed SOAP based JAX-WS Webservice interfaces for integrating multiple systems, code re-usability Developed Microservice and worked on Spring Boot, deployed applications on Pivotal Cloud Foundry. Used DAO pattern to fetch data from database using Hibernate to carry out various database. Used PLSQL to extract data from the database, delete data and reload data on Oracle DB. Developed Applications using Rule Engines- JBoss Drools 4.x to validate the business User Roles. Worked with Apache Camel as a standalone application by deploying in JBOSS application server. Used Docker to deploy applications using containers to allow package up application with all configuations. Used Spring Boot to interact through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers Worked on development and operations to facilitate deployment of components over AWS using Jenkins. Used SVN, GIT for the version management and for version controlling software and JIRA for issue tracking. Environment Java 1.8, HTML5, CSS3, iQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJs, Swing, Threading, AWS cloud, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Quartz, Hibernate Framework, Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions, JAX-WS, Microservices, PLSQL, Oracle DB, Cassandra, JBoss Drools 4.x, Docker, JMS, Maven, Jenkins, Apache Camel, SVN, JIRA. Client E-Trade Financial Corporation, Exchange Place July 2012  Dec 2014 Role Sr. JAVAJ2EE Developer Description E-Trade Financial Corporation is a U.S based financial services company headquartered in New York. It is a holding company, the major business of which is an online discount stock brokerage service for self-directed investors. Responsibilities Prepared Analysis document and followed AGILE software development with Scrum methodology. Developed the application on NodeJS platform using JavaScript programming. Used JavaScript and JQuery for validating the input given to the user interface. Applied data transformation rules to transform code from one format to another format using NodeJS. Created the Nodejs express server to build MVC framework from front-end side AngularJS to back-end. Developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS and jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object. Extensive experience using framework APIs like Struts, SPRING, iBatis and Hibernate. Worked on the SPRING framework like SPRING IOC, SPRING DAO, SPRING ORM and Spring Integration. Involved in the development of backend Logics or data access logic using Oracle DB  JDBC. Developed API using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database. Expertise in Multithreading, Remote Method Invocation RMI, EJB, Serialization, and Java Beans. Worked extensively on SPRING MVC framework to develop new internal web application. Used Spring AOP components for the Logging, Exception handling and Transactional Models. Enforce compliance with dynamic processing and security policies by using Mule ESB. Developed Spring boot application with microservice and deployed it into AWS using EC2 instances. Uses the DAO pattern for data access layer and JMS API for the messaging requirement. Design PLSQL batches using Core JAVA with connectivity to Oracle for data maintenance and handling. Test API responses for WCS changes deployed on continuous basis, validate Green Box and MongoDB data. Developed test cases and performed unit test using JUnit Framework and used JIRA for tracking bugs. Developed and executed SQL queries for testing database integrity and for data analysis using Selenium. Developed automated regression test cases in Selenium WebDriver using Java programming language. Used Maven to build and generate code analysis reports and JENKINS for continuous integration. Used WebLogic for design, development, and deployment of applications. Environment Java, J2EE, SPRING, Hibernate, Struts, WebLogic, Restful, JQuery, AJAX, Ext JS, JavaScript, AngularJs, JSP, JSTL, Servlet, Microservice, Oracle, CRUD, PLSQL, JIRA, Angular, GWT, JDBC, AWS, MongoDB, NodeJS, Adobe CQ5, Bootstrap, Core Java, jBPM, NoSQL, UML, Eclipse, Junit, Maven, Agile, SOA, JIRA, JENKINS, Selenium. Client US Cellular - Chicago, IL April 2011  June 2012 Role Java Developer Description US Cellular is the fifth-largest full-service wireless carrier in the United States, providing national network coverage and industry-leading innovations designed to elevate the customer experience. The Chicago-based carrier has a strong line-up of cutting-edge devices that are all backed by a high-quality network in big and small cities and rural communities, and currently. Responsibilities Sprint planning sessions and participated in the daily Agile SCRUM meetings. Designed and implemented web module using SPRING MVC. Designed  Developed persistence service using Hibernate framework. Develop high-level class diagrams, sequence diagrams, and implement the same in Java, SPRING, and SOAP. Developed web screens in JSP, JSTL, CSS3 and client side validation using JavaScript and JQuery. Used Struts validation and tiles framework in the presentation layer and tags to simplify complexities. Developed JSP custom tags in the web tier to dynamically generate web pages. Worked with Struts MVC Paradigm components such as Action Mapping, Action class, Dispatch action class, Action Form bean. Used SPRING ORM module for integration with Hibernate for persistence layer. Used SPRING AOP in exception handling, which reduces the development time to handle the exceptions. Developed SOAP based Webservice using JAX-WS and tested the webservice with SOAPUI.s Used JIRA for defect tracking and project management. Used STS SPRING Tool Suite as software development platform for developing the whole application. Used SVN for the version management and for version controlling software. Configured Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, Maven and created selenium automation scripts using Test NG. Performed functional testing to identify critical points and automated it by using Selenium web driver. Unit and integration test cases are designed using Junit and Log4j for log error, info and debug messages. Tested Service and data access tier using JUnit in TDD methodology. Followed Agile SCRUM methodology and used Test Driven Development TDD. Project builds with Maven and Eclipse as IDE for application development and integration of frameworks. Used Apache Tomcat as application server to deploy the application. Environment JavaJ2EE, JSP, Spring, Servlet, JDBC, Hibernate, Soap, SPRING, Struts, XMLXSL, DB2, JUnit, JSTL, Jira, Eclipse, SOAP Webservice, Selenium, TDD, SOAP UI, AJAX-WS RAD, Log4j, SQL, Maven, Tomcat, Log4j, WebLogic. Client Footlocker - New York, NY Oct 2009  Mar 2011 Role JAVAJ2EE Developer Description This is an internet based online shopping website in which products will be sold electronically involving buyers and sellers. The application also has googled map to represent the address. The products that this application sell, or buy are related to electronic products, consumer products and household products. Responsibilities Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle including Requirement Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance. Developed JSP, HTML5, XHTML5, CSS3 pages for modified views worked on responsive web design. Wrote Code to interact with back-end JAVA, AJAX, JSON. Used AJAX with JQuery to parse JSON object to dynamically overlay contents on web pages. Used JSF components and custom styles to convert model output to a tabular schedule view for trainees. Responsible for system analysis, design and development, which is built on top of J2EE and SPRING MVC. Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle using Agile Methodology. Developed code for obtaining bean references in SPRING framework using Dependency Injection. Developed DAO layer using Hibernate and SPRING and implemented the web tier using SPRING MVC. Used JavaJ2EE Design Patterns such as DAO pattern, MVC pattern, singleton in the project extensively, which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing. Involved in consuming and developing RESTful Webservice using SPRING MVC and Hibernate. Implemented Maven Script to create JAR, WAR, EAR and deploy the entire project onto the WebSphere. Used Oracle SQL developer for the writing queries or procedures in SQL. Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems and GIT, SVN for version control. Used WebSphere as the Application Server to deploy the application. Used JUnit for the unit testing of various modules. Environment JavaJ2EE, Eclipse, JSP, SOAP, RESTful, JMS,AJAX, JSON, SPRING, Hibernate, XML, XSLT, HTML5, XHTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSF, WebSphere, Oracle SQL Developer, Maven, Agile scrum, Integration tool, Log4J, GIT, JUnit. Client YANA Software Pvt., LTD - Hyderabad, INDIA. Sep 2008- Sep 2009 Role JAVAJ2EE Developer Description The product was online banking system which provides personal savings details to the clients. It offers a wide range of financial clients and as per users account status offers him to take up the new schemes. Upon the user request it generates the corresponding requests and sends to the user. Responsibilities Developed presentation screens by using JSP, HTML and JavaScript. Implemented Model View Controller MVC-2 architecture and developed Form classes, Action Classes for the entire application using Struts Framework and used for server side validation.. Performed client side validations using JavaScript. Used Hibernate Annotations to reduce time at the configuration level and accessed Annotated bean from Hibernate DAO layer. Used HQL statements and procedures to fetch the data from the database. Transformed, Navigated and Formatted XML documents using XSL, XSLT. Used JMS for asynchronous exchange of message by applications on different platforms. Developed the view components using JSP, HTML, Struts Logic tags and Struts tag libraries. Involved in developing SQL queries, stored procedures, and functions. Creation of database objects like tables, views using oracle tools like Toad, and SQL plus. Involved in writing Stored Procedure in using PLSQL. Used JUnit Testing Framework for performing Unit testing. Deployed application in Tomcat and developed using Rational Application Developer RAD. Environment Struts 2.0, Hibernate 3.0, Servlets 2.5, JSP, JMS, CVS, JavaScript, XSL, XSLT, PLSQL, Junit, Tomcat, Oracle 10g.