Ashwini C 732-352-1613 ashwinicha8gmail.com Sr. JavaJ2EE Developer Summary Around 8 years of experience in analysis, design, implementation and testing of Object Oriented Applications in ClientServer environments using JavaJ2EE. Experienced in Java Application Development, Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented Design OOD, Object Oriented Analysis OOA, Object Oriented Programming OOP and its implementation. Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise-level applications using JavaJ2EE technologies like Spring, Hibernate, XML, Struts framework, EJB, JSF, JSP, JSTL, JQuery, JavaScript, Ajax, JDBC, JMS, JavaBeans and Servlets. Strong experience in implementing Service oriented architecture and Web Services using SOAP, RESTFUL APIs. Worked on micro- service based architecture using spring boot for developing the micro services, Netflix components eureka, ribbon, spring cloud for supporting the cloud native environment. Developed web applications by implementing Model View Control MVC architecture and considerable experience in various front-end technologies. Experienced in developing web applications with Single Page Applications SPAs Framework using AngularJS and also good knowledge of NodeJS. Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST APIs using Component based architecture provided by angular 2. Experienced in frameworks Jakarta struts framework, JSF, Spring, SpringBoot, SpringBatch, Spring Security, Hibernate. Experience working with Service Oriented Architecture, which includes Universal Description and Discovery Integration UDDI lookups and Web Services Description Language WSDL using SOAP protocol. Expertise in XML technologies such as DTDSchemas, DOM, SAX, JAX-B and XSLT. Experience working with Hibernate for mapping Java classes with database and using Hibernate Query Language HQL. Experience in configuring and deploying the applications on Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic and JBoss Servers. Experience working with various SDLC methodologies like Agile Scrum, Domain Driven Design and Waterfall Model. Experienced in writing complex SQL queries, Triggers and Stored Procedures in various databases such as Oracle, DB2 and MySQL. Experienced in Development, testing and deployment of enterprise applications on Windows UNIX platforms using IDEs such as Eclipse, Rational Application Developer RAD, IntelliJ and NetBeans. Experience in using different version controllingtracking systems GIT, CVS, Subversion. Experienced in working with multiple databases like Oracle 1011g, SQL Server, MySQL, PLSQL and DB2. Experienced in performing unit testing using JUnit, Mockito integration and deployment of applications using tools such as ANT, Jenkins and Maven debugging through log4j. Experience in document preparation including Requirement Specification, Analysis,design documents, Test cases and User Training documents and Technical Help documents. Experienced in working with E-Commerce software systems. Excellent verbal, written communication and presentation skills, problem solving and conflict resolution skills. Technical Skills Education Bachelor of Electronics and communication Engineering, JNTUH, INDIA Work Experience Onsite work experience October 2015 to Present Senior Java Developer FPLInfosys  Jupiter, Florida  February 2017 to present Description This project which has been developed on PowerBI tool for monitoring the Dashboard applications. Developed Dashboards on PowerBI desktops, PowerBI.com and PowerBI mobile view. Responsibilities Worked as the Lead developer in the architecture team to design the application. Worked in agile, Scrum environment and Jira board to update the task on daily basis. Developed Rest Services using Spring Boot. To Rest Call the service which prints the JSON Response from the Database. Developed Unix scripts, Perl scripts and SQL control files to load data through SQL Loader  Oracle data pump. Experience on Database Oracle 11.6, Microsoft SQL Server 2014. Implementing the service layer converting XML to JSON through Restful using JAXB. Implementing the Proxy settings for Data binding the JSON, XML and pushing Datasets to PowerBI.com. Worked in test environment and deployed services on test servers. Create Java Batch jobs for running bulk Queries and datasets to run on PowerBI tool. Environment Spring 4.0, Spring Boot 1.5.9, Unix scripts, SQL, Oracle 11.6.0, Microsoft SQL Server 2014, maven, Java Batch, Java 8.0. Senior Engineer TargetTCS  Brooklyn Park, Minnesota  February 2016 to February 2017 Description Target Enterprise, Inc Senior Engineer will be responsible for writing, developing and unit testing software and building, testing and implementing infrastructure components to meet design specifications. Worked in a scrum team on backlog items including custom java development and upgrade activities traditional mainframe batch applications will be replaced by java batches and restful services. Responsibilities Experience in Agile Methodology, SCRUM, KANBAN. Create and maintain APIs utilizing swagger framework backed by JPA data access layer. Design and Implement OAuth2 integration on RESTful APIs. Implementing complex large-scale, real-time Web and Enterprise applications by utilizing JavaJ2EE based technologies including Spring MVC, JSP, Ibatis and Web services. Carrying-out the root-cause analysis of Java related incidents, events and problems. Experience in application server Websphere, Tomcat. Hands on experience in working on Spark-SQL queries, Data frames, import data from Data sources, perform transformations, perform readwrite operations, save the results to output directory into HDFS. Manage OpenStack for growing development teams. Build, configure and maintain all instances. Wrote Spring Security based authentication and authorization layer. Extensive experience in developing RESTful Web Services using Apache CXF and Jersey using spring boot. Has knowledge on spring cloud using spring boot for integration, routing and distributed messaging. Implemented Message Forwarder Java Middleware to fetched messages from variety of input module and forwarded data to Kafka cluster. Experience with SQL Oracle, DB2, DBA and NoSQL Postgres databases. Using test driven development JUNIT and building CICD pipeline using Maven, JenkinsJAYS, Drone Chef and Git. Developed UI components using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and JavaScript for front-end development. Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML. Create Spring Batch jobs for running Bulk Query and used PK chunk method for retrieving data from the portal. Building micro services - Rest web services to support enterprise architecture. Developed Controller classes, DOA classes, beans, JSPs and Data Objects in Java. The build process involves Spinning Up an OpenStackVMaaS VMs with CentOS on two different Data Centers with complete Load Balancer setup. Merged an existing Angular 2 application into an Angular 3 applications as part of an effort to retire use of AngularJS Implemented an MVC based web application in Scala language using Web Sockets. Used Java 8 lambda expression to represent one method interface and used sequential and parallel streams in collections source. Environment Spring 4.0, Spring boot 1.5.6, Java 8.0, netbeans, Spring Batch 4.0, maven 3.0, Drone, Chef, Jenkins, Docker, Spring Security, VmaaS, DBA, OpenStack, Kafka, Oauth2, Scala, HTML5, JSP, Spark, Swagger, HDFS, AngularJS 3. Full Stack Developer Verizon- Atlanta, GA  August 2015 to February 2016 Description This project, which has been developed to significantly reduce the development effort of the various developer teams within the organization. RDLU Remote Door Lock Unlock allows the users to lock or unlock their vehicle using an application on their mobile device. Responsibilities Worked as a developer in the architecture team to design the application and define standards for other development teams within the organization. Designed and coded application components in an agile environment utilizing a test driven development approach. Extensively used Spring components and concepts like Aspect Oriented programming, Transaction Management, Dependency Injection, DAO and MVC. Designed and developed functionality with excellent understanding of design patterns like singleton, factory and MVC. Implemented service layer offering JSON or XML data through RESTful services using CXF. Implemented REST client using JERSY to consume data from Legacy application. Used Hibernate to do object relational mapping in the application. Involved in creating hibernate mapping files for class associations, inheritances and generating sequences. Used HQL Criteria, Restrictions to retrieve and manipulate data from backend. Developed presentation layer using JSP, JSTL, HTML5, CSS, and jQuery. Knowledge on micro- service based architecture using spring boot for developing the microservices, Netflix componentseureka, ribbon, spring cloud for supporting the cloud native environment. Developed SPA using ReactJS to utilize the HTML5 DOM features and update elements that are modified in the webpage. Develop cross browser compatible web pages quickly and effectively using jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Responsive Web Design, Bootstrap and Angular JS 3. Experience in Design and development of test automation frameworks for Web applications responsive, Cross browser using various Open Source Commercial testing tools like Selenium Web DriverIDE,Testing, JUnit. Used XML technologies like XPath, XSTL for preparing reports. Integrated Hibernate with Spring and configured corresponding xml configuration files. Implemented Java beans with JAXB Annotations for marshalling and un-marshalling of Java Objects. Used SQL Developer tool and written PLSQL functions, procedures, triggers. Involved in tuning performance by creating Indexes. Came up with Test Suites and Test Cases for unit testing and implemented unit testing using JUnit. Involved in Peer Level design and code reviews. Experience writing unit tests and performing and end to end testing. Has experience in CI and CD  Understands Jenkins, GitHub, etc. Used Git for source code management and source tree for managing the code push, pulls and resolving conflicts. Experience Developing application using Groovy, Grails, GSP, GORM, Grails Plugins and Grails Rest Services. Setting up JavaJ2EE development environment using Eclipse, Maven and WebLogic. Helped developed Restful API in JAX-RS such as servlet to handle database operation. Built the AngularJS 2 dashboard and supported Java backend. Environment Core JavaJDK 8, Restful Services, Spring 4.2.6, Webservice, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, Groovy, AngularJS 2, ReactJS, Maven, Eclipse, JAX-B, JAX-RSJersey, JAX-WS, XML and JSON. JavaJ2EE Developer Disney- FL  September 2013 to July 2015 Description DIPR Disney ID for Parks and Resorts The main purpose of the application is to capture user activity on Disney and its affiliate sites in real time and apply the changes in the database. This application solves the problem of an existing Interface with rules driven, event based with queuing interface, to capture all new affiliate registrations, and all updates to known guests providing a recovery mechanism. These projects were developed using Java EE 7, IBM WebSphere Application Server v8.5, drools 6.3, Tomcat 7.0, Spring 3.2, SOAP Web Service, Spring Security, RESTful, Servlet 3.0, JDBC, XML, JSON, Eclipse, JAX-RS, Oracle RDBMS. Responsibilities Responsible for coordinating the design and implementation activities, collaborated with project managers and engineering teams. Designed and coded application components in an agile environment utilizing a test driven development approach. Worked on providing Authentication to Restful Web services using Authz and OAuth. Developed the application using Java multi threading to enable scheduling and management of the offs tasks to keep up with the huge amount of user records received from CNS. Developed Controllers for Restful services using spring-web mvc. Developed web services callers using Jersey framework. Worked on MVC Model View Controller architecture using SpringsStrutsframework and various Java  J2EEdesignpatterns. Experience with third-party APIsExperience with CSS pre-processors. Servers installation and Maintenance of windows 2008 and RedHat 6.x  7 Linux Server. Designed and Developed Web Services using Restful and SOAP protocols using Elasticsearch. Used Soap-UI and Rest Client for functional testing of the web services. Used the DOM parser to parse xmls and extensively used javacollections framework. Consuming and exposing various Web services using JAX-RS and JSON to different systems for business services. Involved in creating Database SQL and PLSQL queries and StoredProcedures. Implemented Singleton pattern for property loading, loading xmls, jaxb context creation and static data from DB. Worked on performance tuning of the application to greatly improve the efficiency and execution time. Used Hibernate for mapping java classes to the database. Developed web services components using XML, SOAP and Axis2. Developed Database interaction objects by implementing the DAO pattern. Deployed applications on WebSphere application server and tomcat web server. Used Log4j API for logging in the application. Developed web applications on Tomcat server. Used GIT for version control across common source code used by developers. Developed the application using Eclipse. Periodic on-callafter-hours production support for scheduled maintenance routines, quarterly system updates and patches, and other items that affect operations. Supported transition in platform to AngularJS, used Protractor for testing. Environment Java EE 7, IBM WebSphere Application Server v8.5, Tomcat 7.0, Spring 3.2, Spring Security, Spring 4.2.6, SOAP Web Services, RESTful web services, Servlet 3.0, JDBC, Hibernate, Spring boot 1.2.6, JUNIT 3.8, Eclipse, Log 4j, Axis 2, OAuth 1.4, JAVAX 2.1, D3, JAX-B, JAX-RSJersey, JAX-WS, XML, AngularJS, Oracle RDBMS and JSON. JavaJ2EE Developer Austin County State Bank - Austin, TX  September 2010 to August 2013 Description Austin County State Bank is a leading property and casualty insurance company based in Texas. Austin Countys safety team works with clients to help protect their employees and their dividend program provides rewards for keeping clients workplace safe. The application developed provides the clients with insurance quotes and forms online. It allows the client to buy insurance online, check policy information, direct bill statues and report claims. This Project was developed using Spring, Hibernate, Struts 2.x, Maven, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JMS, RAD, Oracle Database, Ajax, EJB, JQuery, E-trade,E-Commerce, Websphere Application Server, SOAP and Web Services. Responsibilities Developed Use case diagrams, Object diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using UML. The application architecture of the System is based on Spring MVC Model View Controller and J2EE specifications. Implemented the application using design patterns such as Session Façade, Business Delegate, Bean Factory, Singleton, Data Access Object, and Service Locator. Implemented Hibernate Template to great extent making use of HQL, Named Parameters, Named Queries and interfaces such as Expression, Query and Criteria. Worked on developing POJO classes to map database tables with java objects. Involved in creating test cases using JUnit strictly following Test Driven Development. Worked on SOA Web Services using SOAP for transmission of large blocks of XML data. Used Maven and Jenkins to automate the build and deploy process. Involved in full project management life cycle from development to integration, testing and release to lower environments. Have managed QA and UAT phases for various large IT implementations in Capital Market. Responsible for all backup, recovery, and upgrading of all the PostgreSQL databases. Responsible for configuring, integrating, and maintaining all Development, QA, Staging and Production PostgreSQL databases within the organization. Experience with performance tuning of code  ex  better file reads, algorithms, handling connections, transactions, Thread safe and its pro-cons, performance tools, etc. Ability to design frameworks which are extensible and flexible. Used log4j for logging errors in the application. Involved in testing the JMS integration between queues and topics. Used JUnit for unit testing of the application and log4j for logging. jQuery template for markup. Implemented two way data binding through scope in applications built on AngularJS. Environment Java 7.0, Struts 2.X, Spring, Hibernate, JavaScript, AJAX, EJB, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3, E-Commerce, JMS, JAXP SAX  DOM, WebSphere Application Server, RAD, AngularJS, Oracle Database, SOAP, Maven, log4j, Junit, XML, Web Services. Senior J2EE Developer GE Healthcare Hyderabad, INDIA - September 2008 to August 2010 Description GE Healthcare provides transformation medical technologies and services helping to deliver patient care to people around the world. GE provides an online website for the customers. This web website is an e-commerce application which provides an online interface to manage user accounts for the customers to facilitate customers to view, purchase products and request services. This project was developed using Struts 2.0, Hibernate 3.0, HTML5, JSP, JSTL, JMS, JavaScript, XSL, XSLT, Servlets 2.5, RAD, WebSphere Application Server and Oracle 10g. Responsibilities Designed Use Case and Sequence Diagrams according to UML standard using Rational Rose. Implemented Model View Controller MVC-2 architecture and developed Form classes, Action Classes for the entire application using Struts Framework. Performed client side validations using JavaScript and server side validations using in built Struts Validation Framework. Designed and developed HTML5, JavaScript, Ajax, XML, MYSQL, apps working in a LINUX Web Server and Apache environment. Implemented the data persistence functionality of the application by using Hibernate to persist java objects to the relational database. Used Hibernate Annotations to reduce time at the configuration level and accessed Annotated bean from Hibernate DAO layer. Used HQL statements and procedures to fetch the data from the database. Transformed, Navigated and Formatted XML documents using XSL, XSLT. Used JMS for asynchronous exchange of message by applications on different platforms. Developed the view components using JSP, HTML5, StrutsLogictags and Strutstaglibraries. Involved in designing and implementation of Session Facade, Business Delegate, Service Locator patterns to delegate request to appropriate resources. Used JUnit Testing Framework for performing Unit testing. Deployed application in WebSphere Application Server and developed using Rational Application Developer RAD. Objectives of securing confidentiality, integrity, and availability of assets, TCPIP, Host and Network based intrusion detection and prevention systems such as HIPS and NIPS, risk management, incident response, common threats to web application vulnerabilities, penetration testing, designing networking infrastructure and configuring cisco routers and switches. Environment Struts 2.0, Hibernate 3.0, JSP, RAD, JMS, JavaScript, PHP, XSL, XSLT, Servlets 2.5, WebSphere Application Server and Oracle.