PROFILE SUMMARY 11 years of work experience in Program Management, Project Management, Strategic Research, Business Analysis, Requirement Elicitation, Identifying root causes and developing work product in Agile SCRUM and waterfall SDLC methodologies. Extensive experience in Insurance Life and PC and Banking Mortgage, claims domain Go to person regarding all client communications, client escalations, budgeting, reporting and planning. Extensive client facing experience leading strategic Initiatives including offshoring IT projects and systems replacement by working with product partners and geographically diverse teams. SCRUM certified professional experienced in Release management and defining the Project Roadmap, Velocity planning and Leadership reports. Extensive experience in defining project scope, project initiation, implementing planning and strategy and closure as a Scrum Master. Extensive experience to manage the project and track the progress by using the Tools like JIRA. Extensive experience to manage the RISK by using Impact Probability grid and define the mitigation strategy. EDUCATION Masters of Business Administration M.B.A.  2009  NMIMS University, Mumbai, India Bachelor of Engineering B.E. Computer Engineering  2004  University of Rajasthan, India Certifications and Tools Certified Professional Scrum Master level I PSM I JIRA, Confluence, Microsoft Project, MS Visio, Microsoft Office PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE 11 YEARS 4 MONTHS Client DXC Technology Apr 17  Jan18 Role Senior Manager  DXC Channel Location Los Angeles New York Program Manager handling projects for Metlife account at DXC Single point of contact for all client escalations and new project discussions Responsible for client management and exploring and initializing new projects and opportunities The work profile includes creating a plan to address project goals and working with customer stakeholdersSMEs while owning tracking and resolution. Maintain accurate program reporting information and up-to-date project assets and metrics while identifying risks and roadblocks. Program managing solution roadmap workshops, use case discussions and vendor relations for capability procurement and use case definition. Discussing business performance, value generation and lead generation to track business growth goals Project Metlife, USA Project Description G2C is a Java application migrated from mainframe applications which helps the clients to send the most up to date employee information and loaded to consumer database. This data will be used by various portals like member portal, client portal and doctor portal. G2C makes sure that the data coming from the clients is valid and accurate. G2C does all the complex validations, and generate reports for the clients and necessary actions in case of failure to load the data. Role SCRUM MasterPM Responsibilities Release coordinator for corporate efforts and defineidentify the scope of works Create the Project reports to forecast the future work, team velocity and time taken by each process Define the definition of done and work with Mphasis PM on resource management Coordinate with APO, Business SMEs and Implementation team. Conduct the SCRUM ceremonies like Daily standup, Sprint Planning, Backlog grooming, Sprint ReviewRetrospective. ParticipateConduct SCRUM of SCRUMs Manage the production issues and adhoc request by leadership team. Resolve Impediments, conflicts and shields the team. Participate proactively in developing and maintaining standards, tools and best practices. Track, monitor and communicate team metrics and progress. Walkthrough on Burn down chart and Risk management chart. Deflect team distractions, remove execution impediments and escalate issues appropriately. Ensure transparency within and outside of team. Client USAA Apr 15  Apr-17 Role Program manager Principal Research Analyst Location San Antonio, Texas Program Manager for CTO Architecture and Strategic ResearchInnovation Group at USAA Primarily focused on handling team providing innovative research and approach towards business problems faced by Business and Architects in the IT strategic roadmap planning and execution Responsibilities include leading a team of Research Analysts performing market profiling, identifying desirable functionalitiesapproach and providing actionable business solutions and approach Understanding the client needs, prioritizing the research with Architecture board and responsible for presenting team KPI and performance metrics to client senior management. An integral part of profile includes bringing product vendor solutions in the lab and performing specific business use cases to validate functionality and client requirements to prepare a comparison score card The deliverables include detailed Project plan, performance metrics, Team forecast, Budget adherence, Research whitepapers, productapproach recommendation and business use case validations Company HCL Technologies Ltd Feb 10  Apr 15 Role Deputy Manager Location Bangalore, India Client Name Genworth - a leading provider of Lenders Mortgage Insurance LMI Industry Sector Insurance Project Description We were working with the client in claims administration area. The client was using Guidewire Claims center for Mortgage claims. The scope of work included Application Maintenance, Enhancement and Support and product version upgrade for  Oxygen  This is a claims application based on ClaimCenter V5.0. It includes claims application interfaces, Reporting and Configuration Duration Mar 2014  Apr 2015 Role SCRUM MasterBusiness Analyst Responsibilities Mentored the core IT team to follow Agile practices instead of waterfall and deliver the project using Scrum Gathered requirements from various business teams Created stories out of various requirements and planned for implementing them in various iterations Created a story backlog in JIRA and keeps on updating them accordingly Base lining of all the business artifacts and requirements implemented in each iteration and release accordingly Compliance to schedule and containment of defect leakage Duration Feb 2010 - Mar 2014  Business Solutions Group Proactive proposals, Response to RFPs and collateral preparation Responsible for end-to-end opportunity life-cycle including bid management  planning, proposal handling, win strategy formulation, solution development, estimations, bid pricing, deal reviews  approvals, proposal defense, due diligence, best  final offer BAFO and contract negotiation. Understanding customer pain points and recommending solutions, Market research, and competitive intelligence based on sales pursuits. Strategic Initiatives Spearheaded Solution workshops with clients to validate scope and refine the solution offerings Worked extensively in giving joint proposals with product partner like eBao, CSC etc. to cement long term partnership and evolution of go to market strategy Company Office Depot Reliance Role Management Trainee, IT, Supply Chain and Merchandising Jul 09  Feb10 Locations Navi Mumbai, India Identified problem areas and suggested ways to tackle business issues by data generation and analysis for catalogue marketing campaigns. Redesigning SKU creation process to improve follow ups by defining department specific response time and escalation matrix Involved in process improvements for transparency and better compliance during Supply Chain training. Company Schneider Electric India Role Software Engineer Aug 04  May07 Locations Bangalore, India Led a team for a prestigious firmware verification project, coordinating across four countries. Responsible for project execution, planning, resource requirements, duration, risk analysis and mitigation. Member of steering committee responsible for obtaining quality certification CMMI Level 3. SUMMER INTERNSHIP TATA COMMUNICATIONS Corporate Strategy Department Formulated Market Entry Strategy for TATA Communications in middle-east markets U.A.E., Qatar and Bahrain Assessed market attractiveness from the macroeconomic, regulatory and telecom market perspective