Name Balakrishna Sudabathula Email bsudabathulagmail.com M 669 261-3506 PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY Having 10 years of IT experience in Software Development with proficiency in developing Enterprise-based and web-based applications using JavaJ2EE, SQL and PLSQL technologies. Experienced as a JAVAJ2EE developer in the areas of Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of web based and client server multi-tier applications. Worked on full cycle development from conceptualization to programming and deployment. Expertise in the areas of Spring Framework, Spring Boot, Spring Data, Spring Cloud Netflix, Micro services, Restful Web services, Hibernate, JPA, Struts, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Unit Testing, AWS and Build Tools Familar with front end technologies like HTML, CSS,Ajax, JavaScript, AngularJS and Node JS. Good experience with huge transactions using Multithreading and batch wise operations. Exceptional at team building and motivating either at a peer level or in a leadership role. Able to work with little or no supervision. Good communication and time management skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS Technologies Java, J2EE, EJB, Java Beans, JSPJSF, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, Java Mail, Messaging JMS, Multithreading, Web Services, SQL, PLSQL and NoSQL. Web Technologies JavaScript, UML, HTML, XML, CSS, AngularJS , NodeJS Application Servers WebLogic 10.x8.1, WebSphere 7.06.1, Tomcat 8.0, Jboss 4.x FrameworksORM tools Spring 4.x3.x2.5, Struts 2.01.1, Hibernate 3.0 Databases Oracle10g9i8i, Mongo DB, Postgre SQl, MYSQL Operating System Windows , Unix, AWS, Linux and Solaris IDE Eclipse 3.x, STS Testing Frameworks JUnit, Testng, Mockito, PowerMockito Build Tools Maven, ANT, Gradle Other Tools GIT, SVN, TFS, Jenkins, JMeter, Jira, Sonar CERTIFICATIONS ORACLE 9i PLSQL DEVELOPER CERTIFIED ASSOCIATE OCA. SUN CERTIFIED JAVA PROGRAMMER SCJP 5.0 for the JAVA 2 platform. SUN CERTIFIED WEB COMPONENT DEVELOPER SCWCD 5.0 for the JAVA 2 platform. EDUCATION Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering, University of JNTU, Hyderabad, AP PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Walmart Labs, Sunnyvale, CA June 2017  till date Innominds Software INC Sr. Java Developer Responsibilities Developed the Generic Java concurrency Framework to execute multithreads. Analysis and Design of various modules using SOA and J2EE stack. Involved in design, develop and implementation of the application using Spring and J2EE framework. Built web-based applications using Spring MVC 3.0 Architecture. Developed stored procedures developed in PLSQL on the back end. Consumed Web Services by implementing springs REST support. Implemented persistence layer using various features of Hibernate 3.0 framework like HQL queries, Criteria, projections etc. Implemented Java Persistence API JPA through Hibernate 3.0. Assisted Oracle DB development team in developing stored procedures and designing the database. Used Maven for project builds and GIT as versioning system. Interacted with Business Analysts to come up with better implementation designs for the application. Provided production support for the application both onsite and remotely. S3 API implementation for accessing S3 bucket data files. Managing AWS instances using AWS System manager. Environment Restful Web Services, JDK 1.8, Spring, Hibernate, Micro services, PowerMockito, OneOps, Gray Log, Apache CXF, Node JS, Mocha, Oracle, Maven, GIT, Jenkins, Jira Azuba, Hyderabad June 2015  May 2017 Innominds Software INC Sr. Java Developer Responsibilities Involved in the Project Setup process of routing and filtering requests to a micro service application using the Netflix Zuul edge service library. Developed Zuul API gateway for Authentication using Reddis Cache. Implemented this project based on Service Oriented Architecture SOA using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud Netflix, Spring Data and Hibernate. Used Kafka as a messaging broker to inter communicates between the Micro Services. Experienced developing and delivering mission-critical data platforms for real-time analysis. Experienced developing high performance transaction or reporting systems with multi-tier architectures. Design and Development of software components like Interface, Action Handlers. Developed trading applications for equities and equities derivatives. Used JavaScript and Struts validation framework for front end as well as server-side validations. Developed the client classes for the web services implementing SOA. Used Spring Framework for integrating Hibernate and Struts and for dependency injection. Extensively used Hibernate ORM tool in data access layer to map the object view of data into database and to provide access and update information in the database. Developed Data Access Object DAO persistence layer using Hibernate. Created documentation for benchmarking the Cassandra cluster for the designed tables. Worked on Linux shell scripts for business process and loading data from Oracle to Cassandra. Deployment automation, AWS EC2 instance mirroring, WebLogic domain creations and several proprietary middleware installations. Used GIT for version control across common source code used by developers. Environment Angular JS, Restful Web Services, JDK 1.7, Amazon ec2,AWS S3, Unix, Log 4j, Apache Kafka, Maven, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Data, Spring Cloud Netflix, Zuul, Microservices, Hibernate, Mongo dB, MySQL Acesse Marketing, Hyderabad, India Feb 2014  Jun 2015 Innominds Software INC Sr JavaJ2EE Developer Responsibilities Involved in Full Cycle of Software Development from Analysis through Design, Development, Integration and testing phases. Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as Composite View, Session Facade, Business Delegate, Bean Factory, Singleton, Data Access Object, and Service Locator. Involved in Developing of Application based on J2EE using Spring, Hibernate and spring framework. Designed and implemented transaction management using Spring AOP. Implemented different types of spring controllers as per application requirements, Spring validators, persistence layer, DAO and service layer components using SpringHibernate API and SpringHibernate annotations. Extensively used Hibernate QL. Extensively used Spring IOC, configured Application Context files and performed database object mapping using Hibernate annotations. Used JPA for mapping business objects to the MySQL database Automate build process by using Maven and used GIT version control tool. Environment Angular JS, HTML, Java Script, Servlets, Spring MVC, Spring Micro services, Hibernate, ORACLE 11g, Tomcat Application Server, Restful Web Services, JDK 1.7, UNIX, AWS, S3, Log 4j, and Maven. Northern Trust, Hyderabad, India Jun 2013  Feb 2014 Cognizant Sr JavaJ2EE Developer Responsibilities Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as Composite View, Session Facade, Business Delegate, Bean Factory, Singleton, Data Access Object, and Service Locator. See real-time banking balances and transaction activity Receive and pay bills quickly and efficiently Move money effortlessly between Northern Trust and non-Northern Trust accounts Generate enhanced reports. Get moving with Private Passport Mobile Environment JSP Struts 1.2, Servlets, Spring DAO, Hibernate, ORACLE 11g, WebLogic Application Server, JDK 1.5, UNIX, AIX, Solaris, Log 4j, and Ant. American Express, Hyderabad, India Oct 2012  May 2013 Cognizant Sr JavaJ2EE Developer Responsibilities Involved in Full Cycle of Software Development from Analysis through Design, Development, Integration and testing phases. Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as Composite View, Session Facade, Business Delegate, Bean Factory, Singleton, Data Access Object, and Service Locator. Involved in Development of enhancements for new enhancement modules. Environment JSP, Struts 1.2, Servlets, ORACLE 11g, WebSphere Application Server, JDK 1.5, Service Now CITI Bank, Mumbai, India Apr 2011  Oct 2012 Virtusa Polaris Sr JavaJ2EE Developer Responsibilities Involved in Full Cycle of Software Development from Analysis through Design, Development, Integration and testing phases. Used Agile Methodology and actively participated in Scrum meetings to produce quality deliverables within time. Involved in Developments of Designing of Dynamic Forms using XML and posting to the server Involved in fixing the bugs in the existing database objects and generates the reports. Environment JSP, Struts 1.2, Servlets, Hibernates, ORACLE 11g, WebSphere Application Server, JDK 1.5, UNIX, Solaris, Log 4j, and Ant. OMICS, Hyderabad, India Nov 2006  Mar 2011 Uniquee Solutions Sr JavaJ2EE Developer Responsibilities Involved in Full Cycle of Software Development from Analysis through Design, Development, Integration and testing phases. Code reviewing. Designed the database objects like tables, views, indexes, sequences, cursors, procedures, Functions, packages, triggers files.etc. Prepare the build scripts and placed into release server Environment JSP, Servlets, Oracle 10g, xml, xpath, Web harvest, SQL, PLSQL, SOLARAIS, XSLT, STRUTS 1.2, Eclipse, Jdk 1.5