CHETAN BABU Mobile 405-896-0512 Email booram.chaigmail.com Professional Summary Java Developer with around 8 years of professional experience in analysis, design, development and testing of web and distributed multi-tier applications using Java and J2EE technologies. Well versed with complete Software Life Cycle Development SDLC process which includes Analysis, Designing, Developing, Testing, Implementing and Documenting the entire life cycle using various methodologies like Waterfall, Agile, Scrum, Test Driven development. Expertise in using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java Script and XML in designing web pages. Extensive experience in AngularJS for application implementation, proficient in creating modules, controllers, services and AJAX calls. Test-driven development-TDD with JUNIT. Proficient in integration testing of web applications and remote systems. Created continuous delivery pipeline for CDT Directory to run the war, Ami and deploy jobs in Jenkins brew master instance, which reduces the time for the deployment of Microservices. Expertise in developing data models using Hibernate Object relational mapping ORM frame work and used Hibernate Annotations to reduce time at the configuration level. Experienced in implementation of Web services based on Service Oriented Architecture SOA using SOAP, JAX-WS, WSDL using Apache AXIS and Cloud technologies like Amazon Web Services AWS. Experience in applying best-practice design patterns and strategies to enterprise applications to reduce tight coupling, maximize performance, and reduce maintenanceextensibility risks. Implemented microservices using Spring Boot, spring based microservices, and enabled discovery using eureka server. Experience in working with various Web and Application servers including Apache Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere, JBoss and Web logic. Knowledge on different databases like Oracle, My SQL, Ms-Access, SQL Servers and writing PLSQL packages, procedures, Functions, triggers using SQL Plus. Worked on various operating systems like Solaris, Linux. Knowledge in migration of systems, upgraded many projects to higher java versions as well as migrating applications from application servers. Creation and managing Data Source, Database Connection Pools, Virtual Hosts, etc. Follow product architecture guidelines to deliver best product performance and maintainability. Code review and suggest improvements for better performance and standard coding practice. Involved in the development of software architecture documentation like Technical Design Document. Designed Architectural diagrams based up on the client requirements for their application hosting in the AWS Cloud Environments. Participated in research of new technologies or tools as necessary to enhance or develop products. Technical Skills PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Client AmerisourceBergen, Chesterbrook, PA Mar 2017  Present Sr. JavaUI Developer Responsibilities Involved in Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application using AGILE methodology SCRUM. Used spring frameworks JMS support for writing to JMS Queue, Hibernate Dao Support for interfacing with the database and integrated spring with JSF. Implemented JMS listeners to connect to the Tibco JMS queues using ActiveMQ for producing and consuming JMS messages. Designed the frontend using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Java script, and Ajax controls. Developed GUI based application with Java Applets, Awt, Swing and JavaFX. Successfully implemented Auto CompleteAuto Suggest functionality using AJAX, JQuery, DHTML, Web Service call and JSON. Developed a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript JQuery, Ext.js, Node.js and Backbone JS and Bootstrap, connecting to a Restful server on a different domain. Used Spring ORM Support for Hibernate to manage efficiently Hibernate Resources and consistent exception Hierarchy. Wrote AngularJS controllers, views and services and validating forms using AngularJS. Created Real-time Reporting systems and dashboards using Adobe Flex, xml, MySQL. Worked on mapping the database schema, writing Hibernate classes, gathering business requirements to build the page logic, and implementing to match the mock-up. Maintained and updated the Jasper reports. Designed and developed Micro services business components using Spring Boot. Consumed REST based Micro services with Rest template based on RESTful APIs. Experience in Spring Cache and other new Spring features into the system by configuring Spring Annotation in Spring MVC and back-end services. Implemented Authentication and Authorization using Spring Security. Developed PLSQL triggers and master tables for automatic creation of primary keys. Created PLSQL stored procedures, function sand packages for moving the data from staging area to data mart. Implemented Single sign-onSSO functionality. Customized Jasper Reports and SQL procedures according to the client requirements. Involved in Design, development and testing of web application and integration using Object Oriented technologies such as Core Java, J2EE, Struts, JSP, JDBC, Spring Framework, Hibernate, Java Beans, Web Services RESTSOAP, XML, XSLT, XSL and Ant. Build the Security infrastructure for WMQ using OAM and Tuned up the performance of the MQ and the applications. Deployed bundles which is an OSGI environment, and modified feature files for deployment and Managed dependencies in Maven in Eclipse. Used GIT as a version-controlling tool for managing the module developments. Involved in creating unit testing of various layers using Junit, JMock. Followed Agile Scrum methodology that included iterative application development, weekly Sprints and stand up meetings. Used Multithreading and Collections Framework including List, Map etc. Used Spring-JDBC configuration to manage some transactions across multiple databases. Used agile tools like Rally and JIRA for project management and tracking. Used Log4J to trace the flow of the application Used Maven and Jenkins for building the applications EAR for various environments. Environment JDK 7, Spring-JDBC, spring-ws-core, SWING, AWT, and Wsdl4j 1.6.1, SOAP, JMS 1.1 Open Source Frameworks Spring IOC, MVC, ORM, Security, Micro services, Hibernate, RESTFUL WS with Jersey, Tibco, Adobe flex. Maven, Jenkins, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JQuery, Angular JS, Ext JS, Node.js, Backbone.js, and Jasper reports, Log4J and JUnit 4.4, jMock. IDE and Tools Eclipse 3.4, OSGi, SQL Navigator Data Bases Oracle10g, PLSQL, MySQLDb2, Rally, JIRA, Version Control  QA tool Subversion, GIT, Application Server JBOSS, IBM WebSphere MQ, WAS. Client Carefusion, Sandiego, CA Jan. 2016  Feb. 2017 Java Developer Responsibilities Planning, analysis, design and implementation of different modules using Agile Scrum Methodology. Developed the application using JSP for the presentation layer along with JavaScript for the client-side validations. Used Spring framework for the server-side logic implementation. Configured different layer presentation layer, server layer, persistence layer of application using Spring IOC and maintained the Spring Application Frameworks IOC container. Using Spring IOC Dependency Injection developed Java beans with getter and setter properties to be configured by Spring. Used Spring frameworks MVC framework to better control the presentation, business and navigational aspects of the applications. Configured and implemented Spring Application Context to instantiate all bean classes in Spring MVC application framework. Effective use of hibernate ORM tool in the business layer in communicating with the Spring DAO and also developed mapping files and POJO java classes using ORM tool. Modified existing and created new Hibernate objects-based Queries for data storage, retrieval, tuning and mapping. Used Hibernate 3.0 object relational data mapping framework to persist and retrieve the data from database. Implementation of new web services using SOAP and Apache-axis to provide HRMS services for the external systems. Experience in running web scale services on Amazon Web Services AWS. Used microservices that uses spring data to implement a JPA and spring REST to provide a RESTful interface to account information. Developed Database Procedures for updating, Inserting, and deleting table for a complete logical Unit of Work LUW using PLSQL under Oracle Database Server. Packaged and deployed the application in JBOSS Application server in different environments like Development, testing etc. Involved in Daily Scrum meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint. Responsible for bug fix code check-in and integration of the code with other components. Used CVS as version control system. Environment Core Java, J2EE JSPServlet, JDBC, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, Spring, Hibernate 3.0, Web Services, microservices, AWS, MVC design patterns, UML, XML, JBOSS Server, JMS, JNDI, Maven, Java beans, RMI, Junit, Toad with Oracle, CVS, My Eclipse IDE, UNIX. Client Holmes Murphy, Des Moines, IA Feb. 2014  Nov. 2015 Java Developer Responsibilities Involved in Design, Development, Testing and Integration of the application. Implementing business logic and data base connectivity. Client side installation and configuration of project. Developed using simple Struts Validation for validation of user input as per the business logic and initial data loading. GUI is designed using HTML 5, JQuery, Bootstrap, CSS and JSP for interacting with the server. Implemented application using Swing, AWT, JFC for User Interface. Developed User Interface using JSP, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS. Designed core interfaces and modular design with OSGi and Declarative Services Writing database queries on Oracle 9i. Writing stored procedures, Packages, Views, Cursors, Functions and triggers using SQL in the back end. Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping ORM and data persistence. Wrote SQL commands and Stored Procedures to retrieve data from Oracle database. Designed and developed Java message components to sendreceive and publishsubscribe WMQ messages. Developed the application using Singleton, Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object design patterns in the project. Created and implemented Oracle Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and complex queries using SQL. Used multithreaded environment to run the processes asynchronously using different future calls to access the data. Ability to quickly adjust priorities and take on projects with limited specifications. Effective team player with excellent logical and analytical abilities. Excellent written and verbal communication skills, inter-personal skills and self-learning attitude. Environment Java, JSP, Struts 1.3.8, CMS, OSGi, SOAP Web services, SOA, JavaScript, CSS, Swing, AWT, JFC, XML, JAXB XHTML, XSLT, JMS, JSP, Ajax, Hibernate 2.1, SQL, EJB 2.0, 2.1, Log4j, Oracle 9i, Web Sphere 6.1, WMQ, Ant, RAD 7.0, Eclipse 3.2, UNIX. Client Green Co Technologies Aug. 2012  Jan. 2014 Java Developer Responsibilities Developed Use Case Diagrams, Object Diagrams and Class Diagrams in UML using Rational Rose. Involved in writing exception and validation classes using core Java. Implemented Multithreading to achieve consistent concurrency in the application Involved in the coding of servlets programs. Developed user interface using JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Worked on JDBC Connectivitys for each JSP screen. Designed and coded the pages using JAVA. Created numerous simple to complex queries involving joins, Co-related sub queries, Dynamic SQL queries etc. and used them for creating various packages. Experienced with NOSQL Databases MongoDB and Cassandra. Performing DBA functions, installing, configuring and supporting database systems. JUnit for testing the application, rectified performance bottlenecks and eliminated critical bugs. Used Eclipse IDE tool to develop the application. Environment Java, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, HTML, JavaScript, JUnit, JDBC, Oracle 8i, Tomcat, GIT, Eclipse,Log4j,Sql. SB technologies Oct. 2010  July. 2012 Java Developer Responsibilities Developed the view components using JSP, HTML, Struts Logic tags and Struts tag libraries. Involved in designing and implementation of Session Facade, Business Delegate, Service Locator patterns to delegate request to appropriate resources. Involved in developing SQL queries, stored procedures, and functions. Creation of database objects like tables, views using oracle tools like Toad, and SQL plus. Involved in writing Stored Procedure in using PLSQL. Designed and coded the pages using JAVA and HTML. Assisted in database design in MYSQL, schema planning. Used GIT for controlling the different version of code. Used JUnit for testing the application, rectified performance bottlenecks and eliminated critical bugs. Unit testing and integration testing of owned use cases and involved in Functional Testing. Used Apache Tomcat as application server and Log4j for application logging and debugging. Environment Java, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, HTML, JavaScript, JUnit, JDBC, Oracle 8i, Tomcat, GIT, Eclipse, Log4j.