Padmasri Dantu Bellevue, WA 98007  padmasri.vamsigmail.com  704.450.0128 Program Manager highly-qualified, results-driven, innovative, and client-centric Program Manager adept at driving Agile projects end-to-end using SDLC best practices, overseeing optimal designs using the latest technologies APIWeb services, and project executions. A performance-driven ProgramProject Management Professional with 12 years of in-depth experience in the design, development, and delivery of successful cost-effective solutions. Core Competencies Process Enhancements  Efficiency  People Management  ProgramProjectProcess Metrics  Risk Management  Time and Cost Management  Release Management  Sustenance Engineering  Mobile Solutions  POS  Order Management Systems  QA  Project Management  Release Management  Mobile eCommerce  Test Management  Agile  SCRUM  Retail Sector  Analytical Thinking  Communication  Decision-Making  HP Quality Center  JIRA  Microsoft Project  Microsoft Team Foundation Server  Microsoft SharePoint  Microsoft Test Manager  Xacc Framework  SOAP UI  JASON  REST Clients  Visual Basic  Oracle  C  Java  VB Script  JavaScript  SQL server Established release processes for change management and published release status reports to leadership and global audiences to ensure projects were on track. Charged with managing Microsoft OEM Software Releases from conception to production release to increase Windows and Office revenue delivered OEM monthlyhotfix releases and demonstrated strong leadership skills for global teams to ensure projects were delivered on timewithin scope. Plannedmanaged end-to-end release milestonedeliverable schedules and managed release tollgate meetings across global functional teams using Waterfall methodologies. Verified that all test plans were in place and monitoredcontrolled releases by managing risks, issues, and changes led release status meetings with senior leadership and global project teams and used MS Project Server and SharePoint servers for release plan tracking and status. Employed Agile Scrum methodologies to implement service improvement plans and foster the efficient delivery of OEM internal software projects leveraging Visual Studio for features and user story tracking ensured 99.9 system uptime in production. Test Manager, Client Microsoft, Redmond, WA, 102013  012014 Environment Windows 8.08.1, SQL Server 2012, Visual Studio 2013, Microsoft Test Manager, C, SQL Developer, Microsoft Test Manager, Data Staging Tools. Responsible for testing and maintenance for a suite of applications for volume licensing contract management VLCM within Enterprise Commerce IT ECIT, using the latest technologies and leading a team of 15 from India and Redmond, WA. Participated in functional specification, solution delivery, design, and test plan reviews reviewed functional, system, and regression test cases for monthlyquarterly releases. Chaired daily standups and other project stakeholder meetings point of contact for escalations related to QA and completed testing efforts and resource plans. Created device processperformance improvement plans and automation roadmaps. Continued Padmasri Dantu  Page 2 Generated reports and presented them to project stakeholders reports included Incident, After Action, Daily Status during quarterly releases, Burn Down charts, Weekly Status reports, Risk Assessments, Test Metrics, and Defect Metrics reporting. Facilitate Bug BashSuper User Testing meetings and triage meetings in conjunction with the Business team. Program Manager, Client Microsoft, Redmond, WA 062013  102013 Helped develop a single dashboard for Service Agents desktops of all agent-required applications to enable the most accurate and timely support, and to improve customer experiences. Enabled Agents to tackle multiple issues with several customers simultaneously using contextual help hints provided by the application. Project Manager, Client Lowes US Retail Chain, USA 082012 - 052013 Technologies  Tools Quality Center, Database technologies SOAP UI, Endeca, and Facade Developed user stories for the consumer app oversaw Sprint planning for user stories and directed test case development, execution, defect reporting, and Sprint closure. Participated in bug triage meetings with the Development team and provided vital information for defect fixes completed RCA on the defects. Completed Log Analyses. Participated in testingdeployment of successful releases to the App store and Google Play, and helped test backend services including Façade and Ecommerce. Project Manager, Client Nike, Portland, OR 022010  062012 Charged with analyzing the applications under scope for release, defined team work plans, and shared knowledge with the offshore team. Created Quality, Estimation, and Resource plans facilitated project SCRUM meetings and generated multiple status reports Incident, After Action, Weekly Status reports, Risk Assessment, Test Metrics, Defect Metrics, and presented them to project stakeholders. Facilitated Defect Triage meetings in conjunction with Developers and Business Producers served as a point of contact for all escalations related to Quality Management. Provided project data to internal forums including QIC, APR, MRM meetings, SAP Loss, Invoicing, and ECube. Accountable for performance evaluationappraisals. Increased CSAT by 30 by developing SOPs as part of process improvement, effectively reducing ramp-up and execution time. QA ManagerProject Manager, Windows Sustenance Engineering OLSE Appcompat AE Automation tools Client Microsoft Corporation 022009  012010 Prioritized apps for general availability releases, provided project monitoringtracking, generated monthly metric reports and status updates for client and Wipro management. Generated riskquality dashboards weeklymonthly. QA ManagerProject Manager, Windows Sustenance Engineering OLSE Appcompat AE Automation tools Client Microsoft Corporation 092008  012009 Environment Windows 2003, XP, WTT, C, Maui framework, AAF framework, XML Estimated project schedulesefforts including work allocations, resource leveling, and analyzingprioritizing test cases for automation. Created work plans, and generated Project Data Metrics and Project Monitoring Reports. Served as the point of contact for automation queries. Conducted application feasibility studies communicated testing statuses and reported automation metrics. Performed code reviewswalkthroughs as per automation standards. Responsible for test planning, maintaining test data, automating test environments, and creating scripts. Padmasri Dantu  Page 3 Conducted root cause analyses for regressed issues improved code coverage by 80 by identifying optimal test cases. Accountable for riskimpact analyses, for generating mitigation and contingency plans for the identified project risks and for preparing SLAproductivity data for client reviews. Team LeaderQC, Windows Sustenance Engineering Windows Vista Avalon and DirectX team Client Microsoft Corporation 082007  082008 Environment Vista Client, Vista Server, Windows Server 2003, XP, WTT, JScript, XML, Magen tool, Xacc framework Delivered high-quality hotfixes, QFEs, GDRs, and security updates to Windows customers tested service packs and GDR fixes for regressions, ship blockers, and security issues and improved coverage using Microsoft Windows testing tools and technologies. Created team work plans, reviewed SLA data, PDMRPMR reports, QIC inputs, and project review inputs. Tracked daily work items reported statuses prepared test plans, and completed MS checklists, case info tools, and signoff tools and reviewed Effort Estimationsschedules. Provided direction and leadership to the System Integration and Verification teams debugged issues using WinDBG, and provided stack traces to clients. Conducted LAM and postmortems for major milestones ensured the risk management dashboard was current and contributed Metric Analyses in PPA Meetings. Additional experience gained as a Module LeaderSoftware Design Engineer for Test with Windows Sustenance Engineering Windows Shell XP03 and Shell W2K Client Microsoft Corporation Software Design Engineer for Test with Microsoft Corporation Software Test EngineerQC with Windows Sustenance Engineering Windows Shell NT4, W2K Client Microsoft Corporation Software Engineer with Global Energy Consulting, Pvt. Ltd Test Engineer with Dalasoft Pvt. Ltd and as a Program Tester with GE India Business Center. Education, Training,  Certifications Master of Science, Computer Science  Andhra University, Visakhapatnam Bachelor of Science, Computer Science  Andhra University, Visakhapatnam Negotiate to Win  7 Habits of Highly Effective People Certified, Project Manager  Wipro Technologies Certified, German Language course  Goethe Institute, Max Mueller Bhavan