Professional Summary Gururaja Murthy Profile Project Manager Agile Scrum MasterQA Leader An Experienced and Certified IT Professional with extensive 18 years of experience in ProductProject Management, Agile Scrum Master ,QA Test Management , Defect Management, Release Management, People Management , Outsource management and Client Management in Multi-Million Dollar Software Development Applications for Industries as Banking Financial Insurance Mortgage, Health Care  Life Science Management, Security, ERP,Airline, Logistics Telecom , Supply chain Management, Manufacturing, Automobiles, Manufacturing and RetailE- Commerce. Education and Credentials Masters in Computer Application  First Class Project Management Certification - Kent State University PMP Certified Scrum Master from Scum Alliance  CSM Certified Product Owner -CSPO Key IT ProjectsSolutions Delivered for Global Fortune Customers  U.S.A, U.K, Canada, Germany, France, Australia Singapore, South Africa and Malaysia. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Project Experience Highlights MINDTREE Limited  Project -Test ManagerScrum Master Feb 2016-Present USA Client Name  Fortune listed BFSI client  North Carolina Description  Life, RPS and Annuity Insurance applications IOS, Android, Web Platform Responsible for Creation of the Project plan and Test plan Responsible for People Management Responsible Scheduling, Tracking and Reporting Responsible for Resource allocation people, hardware, software, and facilities Responsible for Metric Preparation and Reporting Responsible for Managing, supervising, and assessing team performance Responsible for Defining project scope, goals and Deliverables that support business goals in collaboration with senior management and stakeholders Responsible for Liaising with project stakeholders on an ongoing basis  ensuring Customer Satisfaction Responsible for reports publishing with upward management Agile Project Track Helping team regarding Grooming of user stories and Estimation JIRA, Scrumwise, Confluence. Use Product Backlog and come up with a release plan  Sprint plan during Sprint 0. Sprint Planning and Story Point decision using pocker card with the agile team. Daily Scrum callStand-ups with the Agile team to identify any blockerimpediment. Resolve Blockerissues immediately collaborating with required interface teamstakeholders. Continuous Integration and Delivery DevOPS, Automation testing. Daily status updates. Sprint Review at the last day of the sprint with the PO to demo the shipped product. Conduct Sprint Retrospective post the completion of the sprint. Come up with action items. Effectively use of Collaborative tools and JIRAConfluence tool for Agile process, time tracking, metrics. Mphasis Limited- An HP Company Agile Scrum MasterProject Manager QA-Test Manager. March 2010-Feb 2016 U.S.A. and Bangalore Project Name  Sigma BI for AIG Technology  IOS and Android Apps, Business analytics-IBM Data Stage, DB2, Informatica, Cognos Reports, Adobe CQ5, IOS and Android app. Project Name  American Airlines SABRE- Trip case Role  Project Manager Scrum Master Roles and Responsibilities Accomplishment Software Development Track Sprint Release planning, Daily Standup meeting, Problem solutions, Sprint Demo and Retrospective Facilitating Scrum of Scrum for offshore Scrum teams in US and India Managing the overall performance and delivery of cross-functional Facilitating sprint planning as Scrum master for multiple Scrum teams Publicizing the teams progress and successes to make sure they are highly visible To product owners stakeholders. Ensuring the team together till the release completion Ensuring the transition of Projects from Waterfall to Agile Maintenance ProjectsTesting Projects Track Responsible for Creation of Project plan and the Test plan Responsible for People Management Responsible Scheduling, Tracking and Reporting Responsible for Resource allocation people, hardware, software, and facilities Responsible for Metric Preparation and Reporting Responsible for Managing, supervising, and assessing team performance Responsible for Defining project scope, goals and Deliverables that support business goals in collaboration with senior management and stakeholders Responsible for Liaising with project stakeholders on an ongoing basis  ensuring Customer Satisfaction Responsible for automation using Ranorex version 5.0 Responsible for Set up and manage project expectations with team members and other stakeholders Hiring and retaining talent into the organization and projects Responsible for Coaching, mentor, motivate and supervise Project team members and influence them to take positive action and accountability for their assigned work Develop and deliver progress reports, proposals, requirements documentation and presentations Responsible for proactively managing changes in project scope Identify potential crises and devise contingency plans Responsible for Defining project success criteria and disseminate them to involved parties throughout Project life cycle and Delivery Project Name  Schwab Index Advantage for Charles Schwab Corporation Technology  Microsoft team foundation server Microsoft Integration services, Microsoft reporting services Actuate Reporting system, Cloud computing Platform. Role  Test ManagerLeader Description  Schwab Retirement planning application Roles and Responsibilities Accomplishment Reaching agreement with client about the assignment and expectations Ensuring test infrastructure is available on time Keeping the issue administration continually updated Responsible for end to end delivery from offshore team. Responsible for planning, execution and reporting of test Conducted Security testing  Performance testing. Project Name  CAFÉ  Customer Automation for Future Endeavour for FedEx Technology  HP ALM, Business process testing, quick Test Pro Roles and Responsibilities Accomplishment Responsible for the team of 30 testing resources Responsible End to end testing delivery to the customer Responsible for the team appraisals Responsible for defect analysis and management Responsible for the process management Responsible for the customer management Responsible for both offshore delivery teams in Bangalore and Mangalore Marlabs Software P Ltd - Project Leader Release Manager Aug 2008  March 2010 Project Name  In-Flight Exchange IFX4  Product suite  Supply chain management for Air line services for gate gourmet Customers Technology  SAP R34.0, SAP Test Acceleration and Optimization, Quality center, Loadrunner Client  Gate Gourmet Inc. U.S.A Roles and Responsibilities Accomplishment Responsible for application test management for multiple projects Managed team of 18-20 testers Responsible for Estimation and Risk Management Interaction with customer on daily basis Coordinated with automation team for testing using QTP Coordinated with performance test team using Load Runner Reported QA team status to executives Managed defects using Jira SPOC for testing during testing QA, UAT and Production environment. Standardize QA standards and practices for the project teams Coordinated for tool evaluation and POC Proof of Concept Collection of Metrics and Reporting to the Management. Working closely with Business development team to articulate Business value through Testing solutions and help them to close new accounts Proposals and SOWs Tratum Technologies Pvt. Ltd - QC lead Dec 2007  Jul 2008 Project Name  Prepaid and Post-Paid Billing Systems for British Telecom Client  British Telecom - U.K. Roles and Responsibilities Accomplishment Day to day test management, reporting and defect management Prepared status reports for management and drafted Test Completion Report. Member of SEPG Ensuring a test infrastructure is available on time. Allowing use of all agreed test methodologies Support in the Test project proposal creation, Sows and roadmap for transition Coordination and participation in the client application portfolio assessment  estimation Managed, planned and allocated test resources for projects. Mphasis  An EDS Company - Test Lead Jan 2006  Jul 2007 Project  CRM package Client  Charles Schwab financial corporation Duration  012006 - 122006 Project  Auto-write off Client  Xerox Corporation Duration  012007 - 072007 Roles and Responsibilities Accomplishment Process Improvement Prepared requirement clarification tracker to manage requirements. Authored gap analysis tracker to manage gap between wire frames And functional specifications. Authored release management process for testing team. Wrote and maintained Master test plan, Estimations, risks, issues, templates, Review Reports and Test Reports. Ensuring adherence to software quality process Test Management Test planning, scheduling and monitoring Test estimation using industry standard estimation models. Resource recruitment and management Single point of contact for testing teams both at Bangalore and Chennai. The team establishes testing processes, testing standards, test case designs, defects, and reviews, test reports. Migrated several applications from onsite to offshore. Managed all types of testing such as Functional, System, Reliability, Performance, Load, Usability, Security, Compatibility, Acceptance, Regression using Manual and Automation Techniques Responsible for Defect Tracking and Defect Management. Client Management Regular communication with customers Relationship management. Reporting the QA status to onsite executives on regular basis Providing solutions Publish software test deliverables identified during each control point of SDLC, including Test plan, Test cases, Defect and Test reports. Support in Test project proposal creation and roadmap for transition People Management Control and Monitor the team by giving specified inputs Encourage team members to attend training program at least once in 3 months Responsible for team members appraisals Started new initiatives like celebrating team members marriage anniversaries and birthdays Interacting with each team member and prepare growth plan Contribution to the organization Submitted Test management white papers Submitted QA handbook to organization Member of Testing Competency Interviewers panel. Authored testing process for onsite-offshore delivery model. Commerce Velocity India Pvt. Ltd - Test Lead Aug 2005  Jan 2006 Project Name  Credit Quality Decision Suite this is an integrated solution for Mortgage banking Client  Mylor financial services, Funding America Wilmington financial services, Bear Stearns, Green light, NRT, Zero Down Mortgage, AHL, FNLC, VERITAS, Option One. Roles and Responsibilities Accomplishment Managing Multiple leading clients such as Mylor financial services, Funding America Wilmington financial services, Bear Stearns, Green light, NRT, Zero Down Mortgage, AHL, FNLC, VERITAS, Option One. Leading a team of 10 resources. Managed creation of process for testing People management and test management, resource allocation  planning. Value add Test repository creation and management Values add Provide training guidance and growth opportunities for growing staff. Values add improved communication between QA and Dev team. Author Release Notes for each deployment of software. Provide test results to be used by management as criteria for migration into Production environments. Test planning and tracking and monitoring. Co-coordinating with onsiteclient Handles all critical issues and reviews with QA Analyst IBM GLOBAL SERVICES PVT. LTD - Test lead Jul 2004  Aug 2005 Project Name  PBM  Pharmaceutical Benefit Management system for Merck fortune pharmaceutical company Client  Merck  Co., Inc Roles and Responsibilities Accomplishment Leading team of 9-11 QA test engineers. Report QA team status to Onsite Executives Responsible for Test data creation Responsible for multiple applications on Mainframe and Web. Development of testing strategy and work assignments among team members. Designing of test plans, test cases, reports and its maintenance using Test Management Tool TMT tool Designing of various templates according to customer specifications Responsible for Performance appraisal to team members Training the testing team before putting them on production on testing methodologies. Hiring resources.  Member of the project recruitment team for testing resources. Interviewing and scheduling the client interview and member of IBM testing Competency Interviewers panel. Mentored team members in use of Merant PVCS tracker for Defect tracking Develop documentation in PPS and Excel to track deliverables Interviewed all QA resources and recommended to Dept. Manager and testing Competency R.D.M on hiring. Defect tracking and Reporting found for developers using Merant PVCS Tracker Signing off the Quality Gates Delivery to the customer Microcon International Ltd  Senior Test Engineer Feb 2002 - Jun 2004 Project Name  HMS version 1.0 Hospital Management system Client  Parkway Group Roles and Responsibilities Accomplishment Supervise 4-5 test engineers ensuring proper testing and regression testing was achieved Deliverables included Test Plan, Test cases execution reports, Defect reports Mentored team members in use of Multi-site Rational Clear Quest for Defect Tracking. Monitor schedules Lead the Quality Review Process Group within the Team Knowledge Transfer to new hired employees to assume QA roles. Maintained project statistics, such as defect rate and severity, milestones met. Implement Automated Testing Methodology and best practices for QA Team Using Rational Testing suites. Developed Modularized Rational Robot automated test scripts for Web and ClientServer Applications Aid in design and implementation of Load Testing using Rational Load test. Utilize Clear Quest for Manual and Automated defect tracking, and Reporting. Ensure defects of unit testing and integration testing been closed before Carrying out system testing. ADS Technologies Pvt. Ltd  Test Engineer Sep 98  Dec 2001 Product  IBS Versions 1.2 and 1.2 Technology  Integrated Business solution  End to end ERP solutions for Retail Industries. Roles and Responsibilities Accomplishment Manual testing. Prepared test cases and test data generation System testing and functional testing, Usability testing. Bugs found in the Application were entered in Spreadsheet. Filing of System test error logs and defining error priorities in test error reports. Executed, analyzed and evaluated test results, conducted validation and verification of Software