Harika SR. JavaJ2ee Developer Email reddyharika242gmail.com PH 925-587-3512 Professional Summary 8 Years of professional experience in Software Development Life Cycle SDLC core area such as Analysis, Design, Coding, Implementation Testing, and Deployment of Object Oriented and Web based Enterprise Applications using JavaJ2EE technology. Wide experience in Application Design and Development of ClientServer Applications, ServletsApplet communication, InternetIntranet based applications using OOA, OOD, OOP, SOA, MVC and J2EE. Proficient in developing web based applications using Java and J2EE technologies like JSP, Servlets, EJB, Struts, JDBC, JMS, Spring, Hibernate, JSF, XML, SAXDOM, JAX-B. Expertise in developing multi-tier applications using Struts MVC, JSF and Spring MVC. Extensive experience with AWS AWS Cloud Formation, AWS ECS and EC2, S3 etc. Can configure Jenkins on EC2 servers and integrated it with AWS Code Commit. Experience in developing persistent layer with Hibernate interfaces and annotations with good performance optimization Strong experience implementing various J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Service Locator, Session Façade, Data Access Objects DAO and Factory for executing multi-tier, highly scalable, component based, and services driven Enterprise Java applications. Experience in implementing SOA architectures with web services using WSDL, SOAP and UDDI. Expertise in design and development of Web Services which includes handling SOAPREST Requests and Response using WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS and Web Services authentications Expertise in building rich, interactive user interfaces using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Node.js and Angular.js. Hands on experience in developing user interfaces with HTML, DHTML, JSPJSTL, Bootstrap and CSS. Worked extensively with GUI frameworks JSF and Swing. Strong experience in developing XML Schemas, WSDL documents, XML Parsing and Binding for Web Service development Expertise in XML and schemas like XSD, DTD and validatingnon-validating parsers of JAXP SAX  DOM and JAXB. Very good implementation experience of Object Oriented concepts, Multithreading and Javascala. Experience in implementing JUNIT with MockitoPower Mock test cases Hands on experience in Test Driven Development TDD and expertise in Continuous Integration using Jenkins and task automation using ANT and Maven Good experience with version control systems like CVS, SVN and IBM Clear Case. Good working knowledge of XMLIDEs like Altova XML SPY. Experience with client side web technologiesframeworks such as Angular JS, Bootstrap CSS, Bower, Node JS, Ext JS and JQuery. Experience in build tools like Maven to build and deploy n-tier distributed enterprise applications. Experience in Importing data from various sources to the Cassandra cluster using Java APIs. Experience in data modeling of Cassandra. Experience working in Kafka and Camel. Experienced in using Kafka as a distributed publisher-subscriber messaging system. Strong experience with MySQL, Oracle 9i8i, DB2, and SQL Server 2000 and Excellent skills in creating and accessing Database using SQL Queries. Competence in using Java IDE tools of Eclipse, Net Beans, My Eclipse and RAD. Expertise in deployment on WebApplication Servers like Tomcat7, JBoss7, WebSphere8.5 andweblogic11g. Have extensive experience in building and deploying applications on WebApplication Servers like JBoss, WebLogic, WebSphere, Glassfish and Tomcat. Technical Skills Programming Languages C, C, Java Version 8 JavaJ2EE Technologies JSP 2.2, Servlets 3.0, EJB 3.1, JDBC 4.0 Messaging Servers Active MQ, JMS Protocol specifications SOAP 1.2, HTTP 1.0, RPC version 2.0 Web Technologies JavaScript 1.8.5, JQuery, AngularJS , XML 1.1, HTML 5.1, CSS 2.1, XTML 2.0, JSON RPC 2.0, Adobe Flex 3.0, WSDL 2.0, XML 2.0, XSD 1.1, AJAX Frameworks and Build Tools Apache Struts, Hibernate 4.3, spring 4.1.5, ANT 1.9.3, Apache Maven 3.2.5, Log4J 1.2.17, Java EE Design Patterns WebApplication Servers Oracle WebLogic Application Server 12.1.3, IBM WebSphere Application Server 8.5, Apache Tomcat Webserver, JBoss Application Sever 7.0 Databases MySQL, Big Data Hadoop, HDFS, Map Reduce, HIve, Oracle 9i10g, MSSQL Server 2014, DB2 IDE Tools Eclipse 4.4.2, NetBeans IDE 7.4, SDS, RAD 9.0.1 Operating Systems Windows 788.1, UNIX, Linux Cent OS 7, Solaris 11, AIX UNIX 7.1, Windows Server 2008 R2. Professional Experience Walgreens - Deerfield, IL June 2017  Present. Role JavaJ2EE Developer Responsibilities Designed and developed user interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX. Developed UI Layer for the application using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap Used Struts 2.x MVC framework and created Action Beans, Actions which determines the flow of the application based on the results obtained from the classes.Controller. Developed application layout and composing tiles definitions, managed beans to use with JSF Spring Framework at Business Tier and uses Springs Bean Factory for initializing services. Developed classes which handles the request parameters, process data, collect data retrieved from the database to List and Map interfaces and store it on objects.Model Involved in integrating Single sign on which is provided by OIT as a web service. Used JAX-WS, XML RPC, JAXB technologies in generating client stubs. Developed internal application using Angular JS and Node JS connecting to Oracle on the backend. In architecting various Business Layer and Data Management components of multi-tiered web based system over J2EE architecture. Responsible for JAVA, J2EE and Groovy coding  development. Used Docker and Kitematic to run all the containers like Rabbit MQ, MySQL, mongo DB and static content by just running a small script in the terminal window. Experience in working with Groovy on Grails framework which makes creating complex workflows much simpler. Backend development using - Spring Boot, Spring Data, Java, Angular.js and groovy - repositories. Used Apache Camel in the JBoss Fuse ESB as the integration platform for SOA Services. Developed GWT Google Web Toolkit 2.0 platform using API with MySQL as database and Tomcat. Worked on the modernization of a legacy and outsourced UI. Technologies used were Backbone.js, AngularJS, BootStrap.js and JQuery. Developed the User interfaces using HTML, PHP, JSF, JavaScript and AngularJS etc. Involved in migration of the application from Sun Java Application server to Glassfish 3.2 environment. Responsible in mitigating the issues corresponding session stickiness, load balancing, setting up JDBC connection pools and other parameters on the app server. Involved in creating, modifying and tuning SQL queries, prepared statements and stored procedures used by the application using PLSQL developer and Oracle 9i as the database. Used JNDI lookup in establishing a singleton database connection class using JDBC connection pools setup on the application server. Designed and developed Microservices business components using Spring Boot. Consumed REST based Microservices with Rest template based on RESTful APIs. Developed MicroServices for Student, Tenant and Authorization modules. Used Java Mailing or Messaging Service JMS APIs for mailing detailed notifications depending upon the success and failure once the backend process is complete and also for mailing administrator of any system related problems. Used CVS code versioning system for code maintenance and used Log4j to generate logs used for maintenance and bug tracking. Performed configuration, deployment and support of cloud services including Amazon Web Services AWS. Configured AWS Elastic Search to make for stream analytics. Developed API for using AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in the AWS. Build the application using TDD Test Driven Development approach. Used Oracle as database and Involved in the development of PLSQL backend implementation and using SQL created Select, Update and Delete statements. Involved in different phases of testing like Unit testing, regression, integration and stress testing using HP Load runner and also responsible for performance tuning, memory management and fixing bugs based on the test results. Developed web-based customer management software and SOA architecture using Facelets, my Faces Richfaces, JSF, Spring and web services Environment Java 1.7, J2EE, Net Beans 7.4, HTML, CSS,AWS, JavaScript, jQuery, Struts 1.2, JDBC, JNDI, Oracle 11g, Glassfish 3.2, Apache Camel ,ANT, jUnit4, Rabbit MQ, Log 4j, Backbone JS, PLSQL developer, iText, Apache POI, Microservices. BANK OF AMERICA - Charlotte, NC September 2016  May 2017 Role JAVA DEVELOPER Responsibilities Worked in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle SDLC such as requirements gathering, analysis and development. Designed and developed the front end using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript with Ajax. Designed use case diagrams, class diagrams, and sequence diagrams as a part of Design Phase using Rational Rose. Developed the application implementing Spring MVC Architecture with Hibernate as ORM framework. Utilize Camel to integrate microservices with other microservices and RabbitMQ messaging exchanges. RabbitMQ was used to sendreceive asynchronous data Responsible in developing Spring Boot Microservices from scratch. Developed single page applications, components using Angular JS directives, controllers, view and routing, service modules. Knowledge on Angular JS for effective Web Application Development. Developed a JavaScript performance testing toolkit for web and Node.js applications. Used JNDI to perform lookup services for the various components of the system. Developed the Enterprise Java Beans Stateless Session beans to handle different transactions such as online funds transfer, bill payments to the service providers. Developed deployment descriptors for the EJB have to deploy on Web Sphere Application Server. Used Mongo DB for persisting Json. Java Based Quality Center plugin which can be used in any tools such as Selenium, RFT etc. Developed Ruby on Rails web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using Resque and Redis. Worked on Distributed messaging system RabbitMQ to send messages to Existing Applications. Implemented Service Oriented Architecture SOA using JMS for sending and receiving messages while creating web services. Developed Web Services for data transfer from client to server and vice versa using Apache Axis, SOAP, WSDL, and UDDI. Designed and coded highly-available systemsweb applications with java script, Node.js. Provided Node.js for architecture. Used Hibernate to access database and perform database updating. Experience in working with Groovy on Grails framework which makes creating complex workflows much simpler. Implemented a highly-scalable vertical and horizontal, performance efficient Drools architecture. Involved in designing front-end screens using Java script, JSP, JSTL, Angular JS, Backbone JS, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3 and DHTML. Involved in production support, monitoring server and error logs and Foreseeing the Potential Issues, and escalating to the higher levels. Hands on experience in writing light weight Node.JS express server and used technologies like Ajax, JavaScriptJQuery, Json to make connections between server and databases like MongoDB and MySQL. Experience in working with the Columnar NoSQL Database like HBase, Cassandra to manage extremely large data sets. Experience in data extraction into DataStax Cassandra cluster from Oracle RDBMS using Java Driver or Sqoop tools. Extensively worked on MQ Series using point-point, publishersubscriber messaging Domains for implementing Exchange of information through Messages. Developed XML documents and generated XSL files for Payment Transaction and Reserve Transaction systems. Implemented various J2EE Design patterns like Singleton, Service Locator, Business Delegate, DAO, Transfer Object, and SOA. Worked on AJAX to develop an interactive Web Application and JavaScript for Data Validations. Used Subversion to implement version control System. Build ANT Script for the application and used Log4J for debugging. Used JUnit Framework for the unit testing of all the java classes. Environment Jdk 1.5, J2EE, EJB 2.0, JNDI 1.2, Hibernate 2.1, Spring 2.0, HTML, JavaScript, XML, CSS, Node.js JUnit, UML, MQ Series, Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, Backbone JS ,UDDI , AXIS 2, Ajax, JUnit, Ant, Eclipse 3.3, IBM Web Sphere 6.1, DB2, subversion, Linux. PayPal - Sparks, MD June 2015  August 2016 Role JavaJ2EE Developer Responsibilities Gathered requirements from the Product owner and designed mock-ups based on the requirements. Developed a loyalty marketing client using Web Services, MongoDB, and JS. Experience in RDBMS such as Oracle, SQL Server Mongo DB and writing stored procedures triggers, cursors, and optimizing queries using SQL. Involved in all phases of the Software development life cycle SDLC. Involved with implementation of the JBOSS enterprise application server platform and DROOLS based on Rule engine. Involved with the business Rule engine JSR-94 that support for DROOLS . Followed agile methodologies to execute project. Designed, Modeled  Deployed MySql database Schema  Mongo database. Implemented Caching and Single Signon. All implementation was an AWS Cloud Services. Used kafka for data streaming and pipelining. Worked on Solr, ElasticSearch, Kafka, Flume, MangoDB and Cassendra. Used UML modeling diagrams to describe the structure and behavior of the system. Utilized pair programming approach to ensure high quality code. Responsible for managing and executing project tasks using Rally. Installed and configured JBOSSDrools server with MySQLOracle persistence. Extracted rules data from the database and decision tables. Used Drools rule in the java code to specify all the rules needed for the framework. Used Bamboo as continues integration and build server. Involved in creating a data model for a service where multiple providers were involved. Involved in Creating and consuming SOAP and REST Web services using annotations. Involved in generating JAXB classes from schema files. Developed several DAO classes interacting with EOD DB2 database and participated in writing JPA criteria builders and predicates. Automatically start builds in Bamboo with commit-triggers. Responsible for creating feature branches and merge with master in GIT repository. Wrote stored procedures, triggers and functions to perform database operations. Implemented Spring AOP for declarative transaction management. Implemented Springs dependency injection for all the DAOs, Service Beans. Involved in production deployment, supported. Working with XML parsers  configuring of XML files like Web.xml, etc. Involved in the integration of spring for implementing Dependency Injection DIIOC Developed REST web services for external application integration. Developed service layer using various J2EE design patterns Singleton, DAO, Factory, and Repository, Builder. Developed a Message Driven Bean that uses JMS to manage backend transactions. Preparation of Test cases on JUnit during the unit testing and system testing phase. Environment JDK 1.7, Glassfish Application Server, IntelliJ, Bamboo, Oracle 11.2 DB, Spring 3.0, Hibernate 2.0, Node.js, JUnit, REST Web services, GIT, Unix Shell scripts, Control M, SQL Developer, Oracle Virtual Box, Rally, Blaze. TD Ameritrade - Newark, NJ November 2013  May 2015 Role JavaJ2EE Developer Responsibilities Involved in System Analysis and Design methodology as well as Object Oriented Design and development using OOAD methodology to capture and model business requirements. Implemented the web-based application following the MVC architecture using Struts Framework and used Spring in developing beans which are used all over the application. Designed the front-end using HTML, CSS, Java script, AJAX and jQuery. Extensively used Custom JSP tags to separate presentation from application logic. Involved in writing SQL prepared statements, stored procedures, handled SQL Injection and persisted data using Hibernate session, transaction, and session factory objects. Used ANTMAVEN for compilation and building JAR, WAR and EAR files. Used Table per hierarchy inheritance of hibernates and mapped polymorphic associations. Developed one-much, many-one, one-one annotation based mappings in Hibernate. Developed DAO service methods to populate the domain model objects using hibernate. Used java collections API extensively such as Lists, Sets and Maps. Wrote DAO classes using spring and Hibernate to interact with database for persistence. Performed on e-Commerce by using JSF framework and JavaScript, Jquery HTML5 pages. Wrote and tested Java Beans to retrieve trading data and subscribers information from MySQL database server. Consumed REST based Microservices with Rest template based on RESTful APIs. All the functionality is implemented using Spring IO  Spring Boot, MicroServices and Hibernate ORM. Implemented Unit and Integration test cases with JUNIT Framework based on Functional Flow. Used JUnitEclipse for the unit testing of various modules. Project coordination with other Development teams, System managers and developed good working environment. Environment JavaJ2EE, JSP, Servlets, Struts2, JBoss Application Server, XML, HTML, CSS, Hibernate 4, spring 3, JMS, JavaScript, Oracle 10g, JUnit, JDBC, ANT and Microservices. Birlasoft Ltd  India July 2011  October 2013 Role Java Developer Description It allows time tracking for customer and project related tasks. It collects time expenses for tasks associated with project and customer. After being collected the data can then be exported for invoice generation. Time tracking for every employee is maintained and generate based on several criteria. This generates an effective billing based on the number of hours the employee has worked and it can calculate the overtime bill also. The five main activities with actiTime are Registration of time expenses, task, Project and customer management, reporting and System administration. Responsibilities As a junior developer, most of the work have done using core-java, algorithms for the problem-solving. Involved in design, development, Object Oriented Analysis and testing the application. Developed Action Servlet, Action Form, Action Class, Java Beans classes using Struts Framework. Used JavaScript for client side validations in the JSP and HTML pages. Enhance the debugging and trouble-shooting skills. Used IBM RAD7 as IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking Used Subversion for software configuration management and version control. Involved in the team of 8 people and delivery the tasks and monitor the team progress through JIIRA. Mainly involved in developing applications using Java and J2EE using mostly Factory, Singleton, and Prototype patterns for the solutions. Used SOA Spring WS for implementing third party Services. Created servlets for redirecting to the proper JSPs in the application as apart in the MVC. Deployed the application on the WebSphere Application Server. Prepared manual test cases for test the application against requirements and specifications. Conducted UAT testing for the Time collection Software with our team during the release. Environment Java, JSP, HTML, CSS, XML, Subversion, Servlets, EJB, PHP, WebSphere Application Server 6.1, Web services, JIRA, Junit, RAD7. Computer Science Corporation  India May 2009  June 2011 Role JavaJ2EE Developer Project HPlan Application Description This project is a comprehensive and integrated Hospital Management System for a Super Specialty Hospital. This package is used to computerize the activities of a servicing system. This package contains four modules. They are Administration, Patient Care System, Health Services and Auxiliary Services. Each module is having sub modules within this sub module will maintains storing, registering, details of joining patient details, and overall day activities maintains one particular database. Responsibilities Technical analysis, design, development, and documentation with a focus on the implementation and agile development. Developed a web-based reporting system with JSP, DAO and Apache Struts-Validator using Struts framework. Designed and Developed Struts Action classes, DAO, Views using Struts custom tags. Designed and Developed the JSTL Tag Libraries for the View side. Jersey implementation of JAX-RS is utilized to develop RESTful service. Developed Struts-based form validation, Application error handling using Struts Validator framework. Developed business objects, request handlers and JSPs for this project using Java Servlets and XML. Status reporting to onsite team on behalf of entire team. Wrote SQL queries to fetch database result on DB2. Created Test Specifications, Test Documents, Test Data for all the applications worked with Rational Rose and Together. Environment Java, J2EE, XML, MVC Design, EJB, Black-Box testing, Agile, Perl Scripting, PHP, JBOSS, DB2, TOAD, JavaScript, CSS, AJAX, Struts, Eclipse, UML, Restful Services, Rational Rose, LINUX