Name Harshitha Emailharshithac511gmail.com Role Full Stack Java Developer Phone 650-517-6475 PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY Over 8 years of experience in Software Development Lifecycle SDLC core areas such as Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Deployment of Object Oriented, Client-Server, Web-Based, Distributed and Enterprise Applications with JavaJ2EE technologies. Strong experience in Software Development Methodology such as Agile Scrum Methodology, Iterative and Waterfall. Experience with both Core and Advanced Java concepts which include Java, Servlets, JSP, Java Script, JDBC, JSF, XML, EJB, Struts, Spring MVC, Ajax, jQuery, Hibernate, JDBC, and REST  SOAP Web Services. Experience in designing professional UI web applications using front-end technologies like HTMLHTML5, CSSCSS3, JavaScript, XML, DHTML, XHTML, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS, Angular 2, Backbone JS, React JS and Bootstrap. Designed and developed the monitoring system used for AWS Elastic Environments, including monitoring individual instance health, overall environment health, and managing individual component failure cases e.g. missing ELB, misconfigured Auto Scaling Group, misconfigured EC2 Security Group, etc. Experience in using and implementing various design patterns such as Singleton,MVC, Bridge, Abstract Factory, Decorator, DATA Access Object, Data Transfer Object and Iterator etc. Experience in building web applications using SPRING framework features like MVC Model View Controller, AOP Aspect Oriented Programming, DAO Data Access Object, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring Batch. Proficient with software build process and writing Maven and ANT Build Scripts for automated build and deployment process. Experience with Build tools like, ANT, MAVEN, GRADLE. Extensive experience of working with RDBMS like Oracle 11g12 c, MySQL, SQL Server, Mongo DB and developing Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views, Functions and SQL Queries. Strong experience with Mongoose, used to access MongoDB on the server. Experience of working with RAD, WSAD 5.0, Spring Tool Suite, JDeveloper, Eclipse, NetBeans. Experience in designing UML diagrams using Rational Rose and Microsoft Visio. Experience in the use of Defect Tracking  Version Management Tools such as SVN, CVS, GIT. Experience with unit testing the applications using Junit and JMeter. Worked on continuous integration and continuous deployment using JenkinsHudson. Experience in Spring Security Framework for User access Management and involved LDAP configuration for authentication,authorization. Experienced in Distributed Transaction Management system with Spring JTA Based on Atomikos. Experience in configuring and deploying the applications on Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic and JBoss Servers. Responsible for Offshore  technical support and maintenance of its daily batch jobs, implemented spring batch for 1milliontransaction. A resourceful team player with good inter-personal skills, effective problem - solving and decision-making skills, looking for a satisfying career in a fair working environment with opportunities for growth. TECHNICAL SKILLS PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Client Wells Fargo, Charlotte, NC Role Java Full stack Developer Duration Aug16till Date Responsibilities Involved in analysis, design, and developing middleware using Servlets, Java Beans, Hibernate, springs and doin enhancements and issues resolutions. Extensive uses of Angular JS directives to get JSON data using AJAX from RESTful API and modify DOM. Designed the presentation layer GUI using JavaScript, JSP, HTML, CSS, Angular.JS, Customs tags and developed Client-Side validations. Developed Single page application and structured the JavaScript code using AngularJS. Designed UI pages using JSP, HTML, Angular JS, Node JS, Java Script, CSS, AJAX, JQUERY, JSP, JSON and Tag libraries. Followed Single Page Application SPA Pattern and used AngularJS MVC to build a cross-browser complaint application. Developed the DAO layer for the application using spring, Hibernate and developed various logics and reports using HQL and Hibernate criteria. Used Hibernate as ORM to map Java classes to data base tables. Implemented Spring MVC architecture and increased modularity by allowing the separation of crosscutting concerns using Spring Boot. Leveraged AWS cloud services such as EC2 auto-scaling and VPC Virtual Private Cloud to build secure,highly scalable and flexible systems. AWS is used to coordinate and manage the delivery of messages to the subscribers. Client side validations andserver side validations are done according to the business needs. Involved with Spring IOC concepts to integrate Hibernate DAO. Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, file that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern. Developed Web Services for data transfer using Restful WebServices. Extensively used Core Spring Framework for Dependency Injections of components and Spring JDBC for managing all the database communication and exception handling. Involved in developing and exposing web services and also consumption of Web Services like Restful Web services. Developed the REST based Micro services using spring data and spring boot with JPA. Refactored Micro service to make it RESTful, thread safe and more configurable. Involved in performing Unit and Integration testing JUnit. Strictly followed Test Driven Development TDD. Approach environment using agile methodologies. Creating and Exposing RESTful Web Services using RAD editor and used Maven build for the deployment. Developed REST services to talk with adapter classes and exposed them to the angular JS front-end. Worked on Restful web services which enforced a stateless client server and support JSON few changes from SOAP to RESTFUL Technology. Developed data objects to communicate with databases using JPA, Hibernate and JDBC frameworks. Middleware Services Layer is implemented using EJB Enterprise Java Beans-stateless. Wrote Java Scripts validations to validate the fields of the Registration Screen and login screen. Used JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking and project management. Involved in writing the batch jobs, UNIX scripts to loadmanipulate the data. Created SQL queries, NOSQL, Stored Procedures, Functions for database layer by studying the required business objects and validating them with Stored Procedures using PostgreSQL. Also used JPA with hibernate provider. Used GIT to implement version control. Used log4j for tracking errors and debugging the code. Environment Java 1.8, Java Scripts, HTML, STRUTS, JUNIT, Servlets, JDBC, JQUERY, JSON, AJAX, DOM, Jenkins, HQL, Spring Boot,JIRA, Hibernate, DB2, JPA, Eclipse, EJB, JMS, Knockout.js, log4j, NOSQL Micro services. Client Randmcnally, chicago,IL Role Full Stack Java Developer Duration Jan15 to July 16 . Responsibilities Involved in Daily Scrum Agile meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint. Designed the complete website using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Bootstrap, JavaScript. Developed single page applications SPAs using Angular JS to improve page performance. Used Angular JS to create reusable components like custom directives, filters for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI. Experience in writing swagger documentation for Node JS services. Used Angular JS to create reusable components like custom directives, filters for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI. Added dynamic functionality to the application by implementing Node JS. Wrote internal and external API services using Node JS modules. Developed internal coding using J2EE technologies based on the MVC Architecture. Implemented RESTful Web services to retrieve data from client side and made REST API calls from Angular JS and parsed the data to project to client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security and OAuth. Developed Business objects using POJOs and data access layer using Hibernate framework Designed and developed business components using Spring Boot, Spring Dependency Injection Core, Spring AOP Spring Annotations. Used Spring Data Framework to use the features of Spring JDBC and Spring ORM classes like JDBC Template and Hibernate Template to perform the database operations by connecting to Data sources available. Batch processing and partitioning using Spring-Batch. Developed REST architecture based web services to facilitate communication between client- server. Involved in the implementation of the RESTful web services using the Spring Boot and to perform CRUD operation from the database, published the REST services. parsed the data to project to client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security. Spring security OAuth, can be used for authentication and authorization purposes in application. Implemented RESTful and SOAP based web administrations utilizing for JAX-RS and JAX-WS individually. Strategic and practical implementation of cloud-specific AWS technologies including Elastic Compute CloudEC2, Simple Storage Services S3, Cloud Formation, Elastic Beanstalk, Virtual Private CloudVPC, RDS and Cloud Watch. Hands-on experience in developing AWS cloud formation templates and setting up Auto scaling for EC2 instances and involved in the automated provisioning of AWS cloud environment using Jenkins. Aware of troubleshooting issues on AWS and other developer IDE and Cloud environments. Design, develop, test of SOA services using SOARESTful Web Service. Involved in the deployment of REST based Web-Service End-Points. Configured and build Asynchronous communication with JMS services with MQ services. Used Maven building tool for creating EAR file to be deployed in application servers. Used JIRA ticketing system to keep track of issues and tasks on individuals. Version controls like GIT Used for source code version controlling. Worked on No SQL databases like Cassandra. Used Cassandra as data storage and utilized aspects like replica sets and clever document design to make service extensible scale and feature wise. Environment Java 1.61.7, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Ajax, Angular JS, Bootstrap, JSON, J2EE, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Data, Spring Batch, JSP, Hibernate, Web services, RESTful, Stored Procedures, RAD, WebLogic, AgileScrum Methodology, AWS, Maven, Pivotal Cloud, Git, Thyme leaf, DynamoDB, Life ray, JIRA, Junit, Linux, Log4J, TDD, Cassandra, Groovy, Node JS, Oracle, Splunk, My SQL. Client USAA- San Antonio, TX Role JavaJ2EE Developer DurationMay13-Dec14 Responsibilities Involved in the loan details Presentation module. Involved in designing of the BOA Loan Assist entry framework using J2EE guidelines and different J2EE design patterns with JSP, Controller Servlets and EJB in picture. Involved in the implementation of the Service Locator, Business Delegate and the Session Façade design pattern for the enterprises level functionality. Used JavaScript, for the client end data validations. Involved in JUnit testing and used JProbe to quickly pinpoint and repair the root cause of application code performance and stability problems that obstruct component and integration integrity. Developed the Stateless Session bean for processing the business logic. Developed numerous Transfer objects using the DTO design pattern for inter-tier communication. Implemented Struts framework Action and Controller classes for dispatching request to appropriate class. Used Struts Validation framework for validation of user input as per the business logic and initial data loading. Used JSF for automatic synchronize UI components. Logging, Exception handling and validations to IOMS and IOMS Payoff application using AOP module of Spring. Used JSF for navigation handling and duplicate button press problem. Written SQL, PLSQL queries. And used DB2 stored procedure, functions, triggers, cursors, objects, sequences etc. Used Crystal Report tools to generate data sources. Application development using N-tiered clientserver development. Implemented Rational Unified Process RUP for software development process Develop Message Driven Beans MDB  involved in building and accessing a web Services using SOAP over JMS. Developing a mechanism for sending and receiving SOAP messages over JMS by MQ Series Engine Developed Web Services using Apache AXIS2 tool Framework. Generated WSDL files using AXIS2 tool. Implemented Web Services using SOAP protocol, UDDI, WSDL and Service oriented Architecture SOA Concept. Written JUnit test cases for Business Objects, and prepared code documentation for future reference and upgrades. Written build xml file for ANT scripting. Used IBM Rational Clear Casesoftware configuration management SCM for version control, workspace management, parallel development support and build auditing to improve productivity Deployed applications using Web Logic Application Server Implemented open source log4j logging framework in whole application. Used CVS as a version controlling tool for managing the module developments. Environment JAVA 1.6, J2EE, Servlets 2.4, EJB 2.0, JDBC 2.0, JAXB, Struts 2.0, JSF components, DAO, HTML, Java Script, XML, CSS, Ajax, Web Sphere Application server, LDAP, Oracle 10g, Log4J, Eclipse 3.1, CVS, DOJO, Ant 1.5, SOA, SOAP, DB2, PLSQL, SQL, Web Services-WSDL, SOAP, UDDI, SOAP UI, JAX_RS, JERSEY, Windows XP. Client Symphony Teleca, INDIA Role Java Developer Duration March11-April13 Responsibilities Participated in system design, planning, estimation and implementation. Involved in developing Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams and process flow diagrams forthe modules using UML and Rational Rose. Developed the presentation layer using JSP, AJAX, HTML, XHTML, CSS and client validations using JavaScript. Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Spring Framework. Effective usage of J2EE Design Patterns namely Session Facade, Factory Method, Command and Singleton to develop various base framework components in the application. Modified Account View functionality to enable display of blocked accounts details that have tags. This involved modifying beans, JSP changes and middle tier enhancements. Developed various EJBs session and entity beans for handling business logic. Code implementation using java amp groovy, re-factoring amp peer review Developed Session Beans and DAO classes for Accounts and other Modules. Extensively used Spring JDBC in data access layer to access and update information in the database. Worked on generating the web services classes by using WSDL, UDDI and SOAP. Consumed Web Services using WSDL, SOAP and UDDI from third party for authorizing payments tofrom customers. Used JAXB API to bind XML Schema to java classes. Involved in Units integration using JUnit, bug fixing, and User acceptance testing with test cases. Used CVS for version control and Maven as a build tool. Used Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs. Used JBoss Application Server to deploy application. Environment Java 1.4, JSP, Servlets, Struts frame work, Tag libraries, Java Script, CSS, AJAX, JDBC, JNDI, Oracle 8i, Java beans, Struts Validation framework, WindowsUNIX, Ant, JUNIT, SVN, QC, Edit Plus, Web Logic application server, SQL Client Dream Soft IT Solutions, India. Role Software Developer Duration Jan10-Feb11 Responsibilities Designed and implemented Java Classes, Interfaces, Model design, and interface layer design with other team members. Developed JSPs and Servlets to dynamically generate HTML and display the data to the client side. Extensively used JSP tag libraries. Involved in writing services to write core logic for business processes. Involved in writing database queries, stored procedures, functions etc. Used Java J2EE design patterns. Involved in client server side validations. Involved in writing JDBC code to get data base connectivity. Implemented server side validations and developed model classes. Involved in the Database structuring and Tables creation needed for the project. Instrumental in tuning the framework to meet the performance standards. Designed and developed web-based software using STRUTS MVC Framework. Used AJAX and Java Script to handle asynchronous requests, and CSS was used to keep uniformly in look of the application. EJBs in the application and developed Session beans for the business logic at the middle tier level. Created Test plan documents and testing using Junit Framework. Used JAXB parser for parsing valid .xml files as defined by XSD. Created and modified Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers Complex SQL Commands for the application using PLSQL. Monitored the error logs using Log4j and fixed the problems. Designed JDBC Connection for data retrieval and updating purpose, also developed connection pool to avoid waiting time for database connection. Used Tomcat server for application development with Eclipse. Environment Core Java, JDBC, JAXB, WSDL, Rest, JSP, Servlet, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Apache Tomcats, MySQL, STRUTS, Log4j, XSD. EDUCATION Bachelors in Electronics and Communication Engineering from JNTUH