KARAN REDDY Email Karan.javaugmail.com Ph. no 510-358-3595 PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY Overall 8 years of experience in developing Web based Applications and expertise in implementing Object Oriented Programming OOPS with Java, J2EE. Experience in System Development Life Cycle Process Engineering, Design, Development, Deployment Support and Testing using Agile and waterfall methodologies. Experience in working with Java J2EE technologies, JSP, SERVLETS, STRUTS, SPRING, JMS Active MQ. Good Experience in Developing with Camel and Mule ESB Good expertise in working with various spring modules Spring IOC, spring boot, Spring Batch, Spring MVC, Spring Data JPA and Spring JDBC modules. Proficient in XML technologies like XSLXSLT, SAX, DOM, SOAP, WSDL, DTD, XSD, SOA, JAXB, JAXP, Apache Camel. Proficient in implementing various JavaJ2EE design patterns including Singleton, Factory, and MVC. Designed UML for Class diagrams  SequenceCollaboration diagrams and Activity diagrams using MS Visio tool. Extensive experience in the areas of Service-oriented architecture SOA, Patterns, Iterative design methodologies. Highly skilled in Logical Analysis and Quality Assurance. Experience in java developer with Amazon Web Services. Experience in using JSON and JQUERY for the persistence of data and exchanging data. Developed web services using SOA Architecture and implemented RESTFUL web services. Experience in working with Oracle SQl, and NO SQL databases. Experience working on different application servers like Apache Camel, JBoss, WebLogic, and Apache Tomcat including configuring, deploying, fine-tuning and monitoring. Experience in handling Version Control Systems like SVN and Git Hub. Experience on writing build scripts using ANT and Maven. Ability to troubleshoot Mule ESB debuggersflow analyzers, deployment, and tuning. Experience on SONAR and PMD Tools to ensure Product Quality and Process Improvement. Experience in working with Unit Testing Frameworks and Continuous Integration tools. TECHNICAL SKILLS PROJECTS Client Hertz, Oklahoma City, OK Aug2017-Till date Project Hertz Rental Application Role Sr Java Developer Description The product was the Rental Application that is used when a customer comes to Hertz counter for reservation anywhere in the world. I worked on the design and implementation of the Promo Discounts module and the exit gate module. Roles  Responsibilities Involved in business requirements gathering and Analysis, Design, Development, Integration and testing of application modules. Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle SDLC as requirement gathering, data modeling, analysis, architecture design  development for the project. Experienced in Linux software application development Involved in coding building of java applications using Core Java, collections and multithreading. Used Hibernate as the persistence layer to interact with Oracle DB. Implemented agile methodology throughout the project development lifecycles. Responsible for setting up Angular JS1.5 for UI development. Developed html views with HTML, CSS3 and AngularJS. Worked on AWS cloud services like EC2, S3, RDS, ELB and EBS for installing, configuring and auto scaling. Configured and managed AWS Glacier, to move old data to archives based on retention policy of databasesapplications. Created Aws S3 buckets performed folder management in each bucket managed cloud trail logs and objects within each buckets. Involved in writing java API for Amazon Lambda to manage some of the AWS services. Experience in Mule soft Any point platform on designing and implementing mule apis. Developing Mule ESB projects for the services with synchronous and asynchronous Mule flows. Configured Mule service flows with various exception handling strategies such as Global Exception, Design and developed various view and partial view using Object Oriented JavaScript, JSON, JQuery, Ajax Helpers and Node.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap. Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for Client Side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms. Hands on experience in writing Spring Restful Web services using JSON  XML. Created the PLSQL stored procedure, function, triggers for the Oracle 12c database. Environment JSP, HTML5HTML, CSS3CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, multithreading,JAVA, REST, JSON, Angular.js1.5, Node.js, Backbone.js, Spring Restful, Jenkins, Maven, Hibernate JPA, Java, XML, SVN,AWS Client Trimax Americas, Princeton, NJ Sep 2015  Aug2017 Role Sr. Java Developer Title Special investigationTREAD system in MOPAR Description New Special Investigation system developed by the legal team should make it work for the Customer Care users of the system. This would include what is in the CAIR system and how the SI process updates the CAIR. TREAD team has identified in the CAIR and ECCI systems to support corrections in the TREAD data submitted to the government and this is required with some enhancements in the data sending to the government. Responsibilities Involved in complete software development life cycle management using UML Unified Modeling Language - Requirements gathering, Conceptual design, Analysis, Detailed design, and Development. Worked with external consulting team to communicate design decisions across organizations and support engineers working with APIs developed by both teams. Involved in coding building of java applications using multithreading ,jsp, servlets. Coded Test Cases and created Mock Objects using JMock and used JUnit to run tests. Configuring the Mule process for fetching the data from topic and makes web service calls to the middle tier Mule ESB for processing. Responsible to resolve design issues and develop strategies to make ongoing improvements that support system flexibility and performance. Worked on AWS, High Availability Practices and deploying backuprestore infrastructure Data integration in SOA using common-model-based data services. Identify, review and present input on project activities and plans. Recommended changes on project design concepts to improve efficiency. Developing or maintaining a production-level cloud-based architecture in AWS, including creating machine Images like AMI worked in Importing data from various sources to the Cassandra cluster using Java APIs Design and developed various view and partial view using Object Oriented JavaScript, JSON, JQuery, Ajax Helpers and Node.js, Bootstrap. Designed REST APIs that allow sophisticated, effective and low-cost application integration Migrated the existing SOAP JAX-WS web service to REST API for better performance. Consumed and developed Restful Services with JAX-RS and Jersey. Involved in Performance Tuning of Java Enterprise applications. Used Soap UI Pro for Testing Web services. Developed SQL and PLSQL scripts to transfer tables across the schemas and databases. Developed Stored Procedures, Functions and created database tables. Used Clear Case for Source Control Management and GitHub Version control system for check-in and Checkout the code through different branches. Coded Test Cases and created Mock Objects using JMock and used JUnit to run tests. Environment Spring Framework 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, Java 1.7, UML, J2EE, SQL, SVN, Mule Soft Mule ESB,Java Script, SOAP 2.0 Restful Services, Node JS Git-Hub. Client Fidelity Investments, Durham, NC Jan 2015  Aug 2015 Role Sr. Java developer Title Fidelity Portfolio Advisory Services at work F-PASW Description Fidelity Portfolio Advisory Services at Work which allow customers to invest money and manage their 401k accounts through different channels like QP, IPQ which will be online and is free for fidelity employees. PASW manages different types of accounts like Work place accounts, Retirement accounts, Manual accounts and Full View accounts. Based on the customer plan and account the investment strategy will be defined and varies on market fluctuations. Responsibilities Involved in complete software development life cycle management using UML Unified Modeling Language - Requirements gathering, Conceptual design, Analysis, Detailed design, and Development. Worked on enhancements of Client GUI pages using HTML, JSP and JavaScript. Worked with build in tools like ANT and MAVEN. Used Spring IOC, spring Boot  Spring Batch framework for processing DB records Coded Test Cases and created Mock Objects using JMock and used JUnit to run tests. Responsible to resolve design issues and develop strategies to make ongoing improvements that support system flexibility and performance. Created the Node.js EXPRESS Server combined with Socket.io to build MVC framework from front-end side AngularJS to back-end MongoDB, in order to provide broadcast service as well as chatting service. SONAR is used to ensure Quality and Process Improvement of a product. Responsible to approve Test Cases created by Testing Team. Provide technical support to testing team to fix any issues in Functional Testing. Maintained, structured, and surveyed documents within the NOSQL MongoDB database. Worked on JBOSS application Server to deploy application. Worked on Server Side JavaScript development using NodeJS and Web Sockets Consumed and developed Restful Services with JAX-RS and Jersey. Used Soap UI Pro for Testing Web services Developed Stored Procedures, Functions and created database tables. Deployed Mule ESB applications into MMC Mule Management Console. Used MMC mule management console to monitor the request and response payload. Coded Test Cases and created Mock Objects using JMock and used JUnit to run tests. Environment Spring Framework 3.0, Java 1.61.7, SQL, Mule Soft Mule ESB, JavaScript, Restful Services, Angular2.0, NodeJS Active MQ, Git Hub. Client ATT SERVICES INC, DALLAS, TX Jan 2014  Nov 2014 Role Sr. Java developer Title iPhone activations for a top retailer in USA Description This project allows Client to sell iPhone devices and applicable services provided by ATT at Client store, along with other devices and services. The important part in this implementation was, we integrated ATT services with client specific APIs. We also provide customers with a streamlined approach for adding bolt-on features and account replenishments. Responsibilities Involved in complete software development life cycle management using UML Unified Modeling Language - Requirements gathering, Conceptual design, Analysis, Detailed design, and Development. Used Spring MVC framework  Integration for Server-side programming. Developed UI based on struts framework, using JSF, JSP, JSTL, Servlets and Back Bone JS DHTML with extensive java scripts to reduce Server hits, improving performance. Developed Servlets and JSP to interact with Enterprise Java Beans EJB containing all the Business Logic. Used Hibernate as the persistence layer to interact with Oracle DB. Developed the Frontend application with AngularJS. Coded Test Cases and created Mock Objects using JMock and used JUnit to run tests. Maintained, structured, and surveyed documents within the MongoDB database. Responsible to resolve design issues and develop strategies to make ongoing improvements that support system flexibility and performance. Responsible to approve Test Cases created by Testing Team. Provide technical support to testing team to fix any issues in Functional Testing. Developed JavaScript code to feed data-tables of Google Charts API with data, then draw charts with animation effect Developed JSP as the view, Servlets as Controller to make calls to EJB as model Worked on JBOSS Application Server to deploy application. Consumed and developed Restful Services with JAX-RS and Jersey. Used Apache Camel with URIs to work directly with any kind of Transport or messaging model such as HTTP, Active MQ, RabbitMQ and JMS. Coded Test Cases and created Mock Objects using JMock and used JUnit to run tests. Environment Spring Framework 3.0, Hibernate, Java 1.6, Angular JS, Node JS, HTML, CSS, Servlets, SQL, Java Script, WebSphere Application Server, SOAP 1.2, RestFul Services. Client Bank of America, Charlotte, NC Nov 2011  Dec 2013 Role Java developer Project HAS health savings account Description A Health Savings account HSA is a special account owned by an individual where contributions to the account are used to pay for current and future qualified medical expenses, also saving taxes on the savings. These accounts are available for individual and businesses, also the employers can also sponsor HSAs for the employees, dependents etc. The account can be accesses online or using HSA debit card. The HSA works in conjunction with high deductible health insurance plan. Responsibilities Analyzed Business Requirements and Identified mapping documents required for system and functional testing efforts for all test scenarios. Performed Requirement Gathering  Analysis by actively soliciting, analyzing and negotiating customer requirements and prepared the requirements specification document for the application using Microsoft Word. Developed Use Case diagrams, business flow diagrams, ActivityState diagrams. Configuration of application using spring 2.6, Struts 1.3, Hibernate, DAOs, Actions Classes, Java Server Pages. Configuring Hibernate Struts and Tiles related XML files. Developed the application using Struts Framework that uses Model View Controller MVC architecture with JSP as the view. Developed presentation layer using JSF, JSP, HTML and CSS, JQuery. Extensively used Spring IOC for Dependency Injection and worked on Custom MVC Frameworks loosely based on Struts. Developed the Frontend application with Angular JS. Developed Servlets and Java Server Pages JSP, to route the submittals to the EJB components and render-retrieved information using Session Facade, Service Locator design pattern. Used JDBC to invoke Stored Procedures and also used JDBC for database connectivity to SQL. Deployed the applications on WebSphere Application Server. Used Oracle11g database for tables creation and involved in writing SQL queries using Joins and Stored Procedures. Writing complex SQL queries and reviewing SQL queries for the other team members. Used Apache Camel with URIs to work directly with any kind of Transport or messaging model such as HTTP, ActiveMQ, RabbitMQ and JMS. Consumed and developed Restful Services with JSON and Jersey APIs. Environment JDK 1.5, JSP, JSF2.0, Struts 1.3, Eclipse 3.5, Hibernate, Oracle 11g, Restful Services, JAX-RS, Jersey, Apache Camel, Angular JS, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, JQuery 1.4, EJB 3.0, Nodejs. Client Tata Tele services ltd, India June 2009  Oct 2011 Role java developer Project TTSL-telecom Description A web service project for TTSL portal used by the customers of the TTSL-Wireless. This project is to create web services that will be accessed by the front end. TTSL offers variety of products like prepaid, postpaid and Apple care products. My Role in this project is to develop and test the web services of several events. Responsibilities Responsible for writing functional and technical documents for the modules developed. Extensively used J2EE design Patterns. Used AgileScrum methodology to develop and maintain the project Developed business logic using Spring MVC and spring Boot. Developed DAO layer using Hibernate, JPA, and Spring JDBC. Used Oracle 10g as the database and used Oracle SQL developer to access the database. Used Eclipse Helios for developing the code. Used Oracle SQL developer for the writing queries or procedures in SQL. Implemented Struts tab libraries for HTML, beans, and tiles for developing User Interfaces. Involved in Performance Tuning of the application. Used Log4J for extensible logging, debugging and error tracing. Used Oracle Service Bus for creating the proxy WSDL and then provide that to consumers Used UNIX scripts for creating a batch processing scheduler for JMS Queue. Need to discuss with the client and the project manager regarding the new developments and the errors. Coded the UI using Struts Forms and Tags. Used JavaScript for front end development. Documented all the modules and deployed on server in time. Environment Java 1.5, Spring, Hibernate, XML, XSD, XSLT, Web services, XMPP, SIP, JMS, SOAP UI, Web logic, Oracle 10g, Oracle SQL developer, Apache Camel. Sierra Atlantic-Hyderabad, India June 2008  May2009 Role intern java developer Description Merchant Content Program MCP Merchant Content Program is an internal web application used by the Sales team within Rewards Network. This application is used to publish Merchant Content to the Rewards Network website. It provides status notification, generates reports for frequent flier and dining rewards earned. It monitors status changes for each merchant by providing email notifications. The system is functionally divided into two modules, Vendor Module which will be accessed by the sales team to upload merchant content, administration module which is used by Sales manager to monitor status of each merchant. Responsibilities Developed web tire using Servlets, JSP, Struts, Tiles, JavaScript, HTML and XML. Responsible for Design  Implementation of Online Survey module Used Front Controller design pattern for Domain blocking module. Also, extensively used Singleton, DAO design patterns for enhancements to other modules. Implemented Client Side and Server Side validations using Java Script and Struts Validation Framework on Login and Registration forms. Involved in creation of Use Cases and Test Cases. And, involved in execution of Unit Test cases and Integration test cases. Development of PLSQL Stored Procedures to be used by the Java DAO layer Development of UI Mock Prototype using HTML and Java Script for Domain Blocking module. Involved in framing and documenting the Coding standards and best practices for the team, which improved the code quality and performance of the application. Used CVS as version control. Environment Java, JSP, Struts, Tiles Servlet, JavaScript, HTML, Struts, Eclipse, IBM UDB, XML and XSL Tools Used Eclipse IDE, Tomcat, Oracle Developer, Toad and CVS EDUCATION Bachelor in Computers at JNTU, HYDERABAD, INDIA