Kashyap K. Vora Phone 201-532-6397. Email kashyapkvoragmail.com __________________________________________________________________________________________________ Professional Summary Overall 10 years of experience as Sr. Technical Business System Analyst Technical BSA in Information Technology industry with focus on Data Analysis, Information  Data Management, Service-Oriented Architecture SOA, Data Mapping  Data Modeling, Business Process Improvement, System Analysis  Design expertise in implementation of IT projects using Project Management methodologies. Extensive experience in diversified industry sectors including Healthcare, Life Insurance, Personal  Commercial Insurance, Property  Casualty Insurance, Telecommunication, Retail  e-Commerce Web Merchandising, Commercial  Investment Banking and Credit Card services. Strong skills in Data Warehouse Design using Star Schema roll out for the fact and dimension tables. Design of cubes, partitions and aggregations with excellent knowledge of Type 2 Data modeling. Expertise in application development with Full Lifecycle implementation of large Data Warehouse including Project Scope, requirements gathering, Star Schema Design, Snowflake Schema, Data Modeling and ODS. Strong experience in Data Analysis, Data Migration, Data Cleansing, Transformation, Integration, Data Import, and Data Export through the use of multiple ETL tools such as Informatica PowerCenter. Strong practical knowledge of analytical techniques and methodologies such as machine learningsupervised and unsupervised techniques, segmentation, mix and time series modeling, response modeling, lift modeling, experimental design, neural networks, data mining and optimization techniques. Expert knowledge of statistical analysis tools such as R-programming, MATLAB, Spark, SAS Statistical Analysis System, RSpark, Apache Hadoop and Cassandra. Strong background in applying statistical machine learning techniques to predictive modeling and experience with Machine Learning libraries via R, H2O, Python, Spark, etc.. Proficiency in programming in Python, R-programming, SQL, JavaScript, JavaScalaRuby and shell scripting. Proficiency in consuming REST based API with JSON payload. Fluency in big data platforms including Apache Hadoop, Apache MapReduce, Hive, Spark, and Pig. Familiarity with Cloud based HaaSPaaS solutions such as AWS EMR Amazon Web Services Elastic MapReduce, MS Azure. Strong understanding of data profiling and data cleansing techniques. Thorough knowledge of eCommerce architecture ATG framework its functional limitations and the platform features, application capabilities, etc. including industry wide terminologies like B2B, B2C, C2B, C2C with its eCommerce categories and strong knowledge of PCI DSS Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards standards. Technical expertise in handling large-scale platform architecture, integrations, development using JavaJ2EE Technologies. Experience on Oracle Commerce includes ATG Commerce, ATG Multisite, ATG Merchandising, and Content Management working in some of the key areas such as the Business Control Center BCC, Profile Management, Shopping Cart, Checkout, Pricing, performance tuning, caching, infrastructure setup and Endeca. Strong knowledge of application and systems performance improvement techniques, integration technologies, approaches and patterns, Web APIs  Web Service API calls SoapUI  SOAP, RESTful API, SOA, XML, HTTP like GET  PUT  POST  DELETE, JSON, BitTorrent, Web 2.0, etc.. Strong knowledge of security aspects like risks and threats, authentication, authorization, certificates, encryption. Experience in utilizing frameworks and re-usable components. Proficient in using Business Analysis tools such as MS Visio, Word, Excel including Pivot tables, Macros and Vlookup, Rational Requiste Pro, ReqTrace Web, Caliber RM, Optimal Trace, ClearCase and ClearQuest. Proficiency in elaborating the Use cases, writing Test cases and preparing Requirement Traceability Matrices RTM. Education Master of Science in Engineering  New Jersey Institute of Technology August 2008 to December 2009. Certification Certified Data Scientist i.e. Data Science Professional from John Hopkins University. Technical Skills Windows 9598NT2000XPVista7, MS Visio, MS Access, MS Word, MS Excel, MS Project, Rational Rose Enterprise, IBM Rational Software Architect, Microsoft Project, Rational Requisite Pro, MS SQL Server 7.02000, PLSQL, CSS Cascading Style Sheet, OLTP  OLAP, Synon2E, COBOL, IBM AS400, CICS, Citrix, DB2, SAP ERP R3 MMWM, SAP R3 FICO, ERWIN Data Modeler 4.24.14.0, Business Objects XI r3, r2, r1, 6.5, 6.1, 5.x, 4.x, Crystal Reports XI, Informatica, HTML, Dream Weaver, MS FrontPage, IBM COGNOS Report Studio, Query Studio, Framework Manager, Virtual View Manager, Business Insight Dashboard, Oracle BI Enterprise Edition OBIEE, C, C, R Programming Language Version 3.2.5, Minitab, XML, XSD, WSDL, X12, SAP PowerDesigner, SAP PowerBuilder, Analysis of Variance ANOVA and Experimental Design, Total Quality Management and Lean Six Sigma Manufacturing Methodologies, SAFe Scaled Agile Framework Practitioner, PMIs PMBOK guidelines  standards, TOGAF The Open Group Architecture Framework, IIBAs BABOK guidelines  standards, Business Architecture Guilds BIZBOK Business Architecture Body of Knowledge standards  guidelines, Enterprise Architecture Body of Knowledge EABOK, Enterprise Information Architecture EIA framework. Professional Experience Fidelity Investments FMR Smithfield, RI Dec 2016  Current Designation Principal Program Analyst  Technical Project Architect Primary objective of the project was to address and resolve corporate Audit issue Tier C finding for the Enterprise Cybersecurity group on highly confidential Client Credentials comprised of PII data exposed into the server logs written by various Internal employees within each business units, Broker  Dealer apps, 3rd party vendor apps  External customer  clients Fidelity hosted applications, thereby applying log masking logic, data redaction techniques on these exposed keys within server logs physically located on multiple servers. Delivered elite level security solutions for its Enterprise Cybersecurity business group which essentially protects Fidelity and its customers valuable information. Interacted with stakeholders, facilitated multiple fusion sessions and delivered the end results of work that provide the necessary requirements to the delivery team which thereby built and supported technology solutions. Worked as part of the Customer Protection Program, directly with Program and Project Managers as well as technology and business partners. Worked with tools such as Jira and Confluence to provide transparency of scope. Worked with our delivery teams including QA Data Services and engineering to ensure that we are meeting the needs of our stakeholders plus delivered solid, quality products to production. Supported Program and Project managers including providing input tocreation of strategy and execution plans and input to project status. Point person to escalate risks, change requests and participated in corrective actions path to green. Performed server logs analysis on Linux and Unix servers used by enterprise wide business units, thereby leveraged Splunk GUI tool to read and extrapolate pertinent meta data from these server logs. Used tools like Jira, ITEC PPMC, Confluence, etc. to track, monitor, delegate tasks  activities, operate different project aspects and functions. Derived insights out of ambiguity  understood, processed and interpreted complex data sets. Analyzed complex business data  identified patterns in the data using algorithms from statistics and machine learning. Developed and improved algorithms and methodologies to handle, browse, process and visualize structured and unstructured data. Translated Business requirements, business rules and business criteria to system specifications and system requirements thereby preparing SRS System Requirement Specifications and PRS Performance Requirement Specifications. Environment MS Office Suite Package, MS Visio 2013 Pro, MS Excel Pivot Tables, MS Excel Functions  Formulas, MS Excel VLookUp, MS Excel Macros, Splunk Enterprise 6.5 Splunk GUI Tool, Oracle 11g, IBM DB2, CyberArk EIAM Enterprise Identity  Access Management, IBM InfoSphere Optim Data Privacy, ServiceNow, VMWare Tools, Oracle 11g Client 11.2.0.2 r01.02, Quest TOAD for Oracle, MS Access, Informatica Power Center, MS SQL Server, ITEC IT Enablement Center ALM Application LifeCycle Management, Atlassian Confluence, ITEC IT Enablement Center Atlassian JIRA, Document Central, IBM DB2 Advanced Recovery Expert, IBM DB2 Merge BackUp, HP ITEC IT Enablement Center PPMC Project  Portfolio Management Center. Verizon Wireless, Warren, NJ May 2016  Dec 2016 Designation Sr. Technical Business System Analyst  Technical Project Manager The prime objective of the IoT Internet Of Things, ReSale, M2M Machine to Machine portfolio was to utilize the core capabilities within MCS Mobile Content Solutions application suite module in order to web merchandise the non-tangible like Licenses and Professional Services components within a cart Items  SKUs through frontend Omni-channels thereby foster  grow B2B Business To Business, B2C Business To Customer business models from enterprises strategic viewpoint and generate billing events at Account  Customer level from backend system application. Authored, owned, managed and maintained 1Pagers to give brief overview of the products  services to be created and maintained in our MCS  SCM portal. Facilitated meeting sessions with Product Managers, Product Owners, Architectures and Analyst to hash out visio IoT Internet of Things Vendor flows, Order Fulfillment Flows and Order Processing Flows. Planned, created, designed, managed and baselined draft high-level Project Scope, In-Scope  Out-Scope Functionalities, Draft SLAs for 3rd party vendors  partners, Baseline Project Timelines  Gantt Chart at project implementation level with external 3rd party vendors  partners in order to accomplish System Integration Testing SIT milestone system application. Defined, designed and elicited core business objectives in order to deliver qualitative product, program and project with optimum utilization and the most efficient use of enterprise resources. Managed project charter, project plans, scope statement, project execution, risk mitigation, contingency plan and achievement of project and program objectives. Managed SIT  UAT test activities by ensuring defects are logged accurately in JIRA and issues resolved appropriately. Created, aligned and logged EPICS, User Stories  Features, Tasks Development, Infrastructure  QA Tasks, Bugs, Defects, BRs Build Requests, DRs Deployment Requests, Issues, etc. in JIRA tool. Strong knowledge of Unix commands and running those Unix commands in various boxes to validate server logs. Effectively and lucidly communicated project risks, issues especially launch gating, dependencies, progress status, launches, concerns and retrospectives in structured RAID template designed and choreographed by me. Environment Activiti BPM, XML Spy, RestFUL API, SoapUI, HP Quality Center ALM Application Lifecycle Management 12.20  12.01, Quest Toad For Oracle 12.0 64bit, Programmers Notepad, PuTTY.exe, JIRA, CAs Clarity PPM, Cloudsite SharePoint, Confluence document repository, APEX Search Client RealTime application, DB2 AppDevClient 9.7, MS Office Project Standard 2007, MS Office Standard 2007, MS Office Visio Standard, Open Source XML tools, Oracle Client 11g R2 11.2.0.1.0, Techsmiths SnagIT Editor 12, SQL Developer 4.1.3. Chubb Insurance  Chubb Group of Insurance Companies, Whitehouse Station, NJ July 2015  May 2016 Designation Sr. Technical Business System Analyst  Project Architect The purpose of the Client Integration initiative is to be able to view and manage PRS business at the client  household  account level in an integrated fashion so that we can make better and faster underwriting decisions, more effectively market and communicate with existing and potential clients, price across clients and deliver better customer service. Integrate PLS  ORCA into the Chubb Client MDMUI in order to provide an integrated household policy portfolio view across key Chubb Policy Admin Systems for Personal Lines segment, along with the other legacy Chubbs disparate policy admin systems like MasterPiece, CAAS  Yacht. Created and documented roadmap for meetings with ACE. Baselined documents used for source to target mapping. Understanding CHUBBs system and applications i.e. Target system for CLIENT INT project. Designed, developed and maintained consistency of the Pre-landing and Landing tables Generic Landing Layout file  sheet that the core execution team leveraged for Source To Target Mapping sessions. Created and documented High Level Data Movement and Data Flow diagrams, High Level  Detailed Conceptual Architecture diagrams using BPMN Business Process Model and Notation standards encapsulating every system components within visio flows. Conducted thorough analysis on CPI data models for Subject Of Insurance, Policy, Policy Term, Business Party schemas. Confirmed on the mapping performed within ORCA Policy Status Mapping sheet for Transaction Status type and Contract Status type. Confirmed the data points in Match Columns column for the Match Rules from Client INT ORCA Match Rules sheet. Gave an overview on System Triggers and introduced team on triggers. Integrated Survivorship Rules for 6 Personal Lines Systems. Overview of Survivorship Rules like What is Survivorship and what does it mean to MDM process  Client UI application and introduce team to Survivorship  Survival Rules Matrix sheet. Was responsible for identifying and documenting business rules and creating detailed Use Cases, Use Case models, Use Case diagrams and Object Oriented Analysis and Designs OOAD using UML Unified Modeling Language. Prepared ER Diagrams, documented Data Dictionary, identified database schemas, its data elementsfields, and studied their nomenclatures from the identified columns, for phased deliverables. Environment Informatica Data Director IDD, Informatica Analyzer, DB2, Informatica Power Center, MDM, Oracle 11g, Information Builders WebFocus 8, IBM Cognos Report Studio 10, IBM Lotus Notes, CICS, Cobol, Oracle SQL Server, MS Visio, MS Office Suite, MasterPiece, Guidewire policy admin system, CAAS, Yacht, PLS, ORCA, DRC, SharePoint. Bed Bath and Beyond, Union, NJ July 2014  July 2015 Designation Lead Technical Business System Analyst  Technical Product Manager Prime focus of the EXIMUniversal Cart was to have the ability to export productsitems from BBBYs online channels both desktop  mobile applications to 3rd party vendor sites that offer personalization andor customization services like monogramming, etching, sublimationprinting etc. not currently available on BBBYs sitesconcepts concepts like BBBY-US, BBBY-Canada, BuyBuyBaby, Christmas Tree Shops, etc.. Performed requirements gathering  analysis by actively soliciting, examining, investigating and negotiating customer requirements with business directors and Product Development Managers, while leading the technical requirements analysis and driving the system design and construction. Performed extensive SKU to Product relationship mapping at UPC level, SKUitem level, Product level, Collection  Accessories level, etc. Thereby understood cardinality between SSWPs Single SKU Web Products and MSWPs Multi SKU Web Products and process by which they are Web Enabled and Web Disabled for Digital Merchandising. Conducted numerous impact analysis sessions, thereby analyzing the behavior of multiple features  functionalities on different web pages like PLP Product List Page  Grid View  List View, PDP Product Detail Page, Quick View, Collection  Accessories, Your Cart page, Single Shipping  Multi Shipping Location, Order Confirmation, Order Preview, Order History, Track Order, etc. and on the user CTA Call to Action button buttons like Add to Cart, Add to Registry, Save for Later, Find in Store. Created  Documented, managed, controlled and delivered user stories, features and functionalities in form of Story or Functional Requirements i.e. formal FRD within the CCM  RM tools respectively. Updated the tools with appropriate COS Condition of Satisfaction  Acceptance Criteria, Story Title, Card, Conversation, Assumptions etc. by following standardized Agile SCRUM methodologyprocess. Also created  documented, managed, controlled and delivered Epic, Features, Story, Tasks, Spikes by breaking these out appropriately and then tie them back to the concerned Feature and Story within the RM Requirements Management tool. Collaborated with the development team to enforce the implementation of requirements throughout the entire coding cycle and managed change request using Rational Clear Quest. Environment IBMs Rational Tools, IBM Requirement Management Tool, IBM Change  Configuration Management Tool, RMTrack  Defect Tracking, JIRA, ATG eCommerce Platform, TIBCO, Riversands PIM Product Information Management, Tableau, QlikView, STIBOs PDM Product Data Master, Web2.0, Oracle SQL Server Developer, Microstrategy, Oracle Endeca, UNIX, Java, .Net. Maryland Department of Health  Mental Hygiene  CSC - CNSI, Baltimore, MD Jan 2013  July 2014 Designation Sr. Technical Business System Analyst  BI Reporting Lead The prime objective of the project is to replace the current MMIS Claims processing system for DHMH, with a web-based Service Oriented Solution consistent with MITA 2.0 Medicaid Information Technology Architecture guidelines that has online web capabilities for all Users including Providers and RecipientsBeneficiaries. The systems User Interface intent was to provide the capability for online data entry for Provider Enrollment applications track and automate Workflow Management of the process and online verification of Provider Enrollment status. Reviewed, analyzed, evaluated business processes and associated IT application requirements. Analyzed business workflow and system needs for conversions and migrations performed data mapping and data conversions. Identified specifications for billing and accounts receivable requirements, performed gap analysis  presented information to technical team to identify system requirements. Worked extensively with developing business rules engine enabling the business rules such as referral, prior authorization, eligibility, claims processing and billing essential. Involved in implementation of HIPAA EDI Transactions 835, 837. Facilitated Electronic Data Interchange EDI. Performed GAP Analysis for HIPAA 4010 and 5010 transactions. Used EDI tools to verify mapping to X12 format. Recommended changes for system design, methods, procedures, policies and workflows affecting Medicare  Medicaid claims processing in compliance with government compliant processes like HIPAA  EDI formats and accredited standards ANSI. Analyzed HIPAA EDI transactions in X12 responses and of 837, 835, 277CA and 999 and looked for defects. Recommended changes for system design, methods, procedures, policies and workflows affecting MedicareMedicaid claims processing in compliance with government compliant processes like HIPAA EDI formats and accredited standards ANSI. Conducted detail oriented analysis on the current AS-IS Maryland MMIS legacy system and driving iterative GAP analysis sessions for the same to propose the effective target TO-BE MMIS system. Designed DashboardsReports using the Oracle Business Intelligence Analytics platform for requirement analysis and data analytics. Enhanced performance of Reports  Dashboards by implementing the Aggregate tables, Materialized Views, Table partitions, re-building of indexes and managing Cache etc. Responsible for processing Medicaid claims in a workflow environment. Accurately interpreted benefit  policy provisions applicable to Medicaid enrollees. Reviewed  resolved claim edits using multiple systems, processes and procedures. Environment MMIS  CMS Regulations, HIPAA Privacy, Wire Framing, UML, SCRUM, eCAMS  ProviderOne CNSI owned  developed Claims Administration System, iLotus Notes, IBM COGNOS 10 Report Studio, Oracle Financials, JIRA Defect Tracking Tool, ReqTrace Web 2.1, Oracle SQL Developer, J2EE, .NET, Oracle ODBC, Oracle BI Enterprise Edition 11g, MS Office Suite, MS Excel, MS Project, SharePoint, Service Oriented Architecture SOA, RUP For MMIS Development, Informatica PowerCenter, Enterprise Architect 10 UML SPARX Systems EA Visual Modeling Platform. Medco Health Solutions Inc.  Express Scripts Inc., Franklin Lakes, NJ Oct 2011  Jan 2013 Designation Sr. Technical Business System Analyst The purpose of the project was to report the back-end Teradata IW databases utilizing the front-end Cognos BI reporting tool for the Medicare Part D claims Adjustments  Reconciliation and Operations Workbook business process. This project involved creation of a Medicare, Medicaid Solutions MMMS dashboard that included views from various channels, operational divisions and products within the Medicare organization. Gathered all the Reporting Requirements and functional requirements through JAD sessions, formal interviews and brain storming sessions from the Business Owners and stakeholders based on the project scope and documented it in form of FRDs and Use-Cases in CaliberRM  Optimal Trace. Conducted JAD sessions with different Business Users to develop new policies and procedures for the Service Catalogue, Charge Capture and Service Worklist Charge Router, Hospital billing, coding, special coding requirements for Medco Health  Express Scripts and Claim processing. Involved in analysis, design, and implementation of the following systems  Control Management Reporting and Security Systems generation of daily, weekly, and monthly reports of hospital patients activity. Medical Billing  Collection Systems generation of daily billing activity based on patient records  establishment of collection protocols. Accounting Systems Financial Statement generation and analysis according to government standards and protocols. Worked on EDI transactions X12, 835, and 837 P.I to identify key data set elements for designated record set. Interacted with Claims, Payments and Enrollment hence analyzing and documenting related business processes. Involved in the System Analysis, Design and Development of the project. Integral part of end-to-end implementation of IW Reporting from capturing reporting requirements, Relational data modeling in Cognos, Metadata analysis, mock-up template designing and BI reporting system. Displayed in depth knowledge of MedicareMedicaid Claims processes from AdminProviderPayer side which were later part of the training program to vendors. Worked on improvement of Claims Reimbursement User Interface for a better experience and incorporate changes as per HIPAA guidelines using the gap analysis. Identified the functional as well as technical needs of the department and accordingly engaged as liaison between the Upper Management and IT Team to develop Cognos based BI Reports, applications and softwares. Assisted in development of the reports using Cognos Report Studio and Framework Manager. Developed Forms, Reports and Queries using MS Access and Excel including Pivot tables, Vlookup and Macros. Environment SCRUM, RUP, SharePoint, Synon2E, COBOL, IBM AS400, IBM Cognos 10 Report Studio, Query Studio, Framework Manager, Virtual View Manager, Business Insight Dashboard, UNIX, Microsoft SQL Server 2008, T-SQL, MS SQL Server, Teradata IW, BRIO Query Intelligence, MS Office Suite, MS Project, MS Visio, ERWIN, OiM Oracle Identity Manager, ORACLE SQL Server Developer, Teradata, DB2, Informatica Powercenter, CA ERwin Data Modeler, Oracle BI Enterprise Edition 10g, PLSQL, CAs ALL Fusion Harvest, HP Quality Center, EDI, XML, .CSV Comma Delimited, Rational Clear Quest, Anchor DW, Foundation14 F14, CaliberRM 64Bit Production, Optimal Trace, MagicDraw UML. CVS Caremark, Richardson, TX Jan 2010  Oct 2011 Designation Sr. Technical Business Analyst The primary goal of the project is to extract common services such as Eligibility, Formulary, Drug Maintenance, etc. out of the disparate systems and host them independently to facilitate economy of operations, isolation of common business services from core adjudication transaction processing and externalize the data in a way that can be consumed by other external applications within the Organization. This will enable common services, tools and interfaces that can improve client experience and drive consistency regardless of which adjudication engine is used. Gathered, analyzed, documented business and technical requirements from both formal and informal sessions and validate the needs of the business stakeholders, thereby drafting the Technical Design Document TDD and System Specification Document SSD. Designed and developed Use Cases and Use Case scenarios, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, High Level and Low Level Process Flow Diagrams, OOAD using UML and Business Process Modeling. Understood clients business needs related to operational payer departments i.e. claims, enrollment, billing, etc.. Profiled data in the sources prior to defining the data cleaning rules. Perform small enhancements data cleansingdata quality. Worked on various Professional billing and Hospital billing products. Designed and implemented unique platform, which collected and synchronized information of each person all in one place, including medical claims, lab results, self reported data and other relevant information and also in an efficient and effective manner. Responsible for preparing Business Requirement Document BRD, Functional Requirement Document FRD and then translating into functional specifications and test plans. Closely coordinated with both business users and developers for arriving at a mutually acceptable solution. Developed project definitions, project scope, costbenefit and risk analysis, work plans, daily and weekly progress reports, and presentations. Created and tested scripts for the premium calculations and claim limits and deductible. Reviewed the use cases, functions and features list, map the requirements to design, and update the Requirements Traceability Matrix RTM. Created various reports such as billing payment reports, Billing Grouping Payment and discount reports. Responsible to give the payers the clear vision of claim life cycle from submission to CVS Caremark through payer adjunction. Designed  implemented a web based claims processing system  management application to administer and process health insurance claims automatically. It connected the organization to largest all-payer network of commercial  government health plans nationwide to provide wealth of real-time patient benefit information. Created source table definitions in the Data Stage Repository by studying the data sources by importing the data from Mainframe. Wrote PLSQL statement and stored procedures in Oracle for extracting as well as writing data. Created and executed claims, enrollment andor billing test scenarios, including defect tracking. Environment RUP, SharePoint, Synon2E, COBOL, IBM AS400, CICS, Citrix, Cognos 8, DB2, SAP R3 FICO, Microsoft SQL Server 2008, T-SQL, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS, MS Excel, MS Word, MS Access, MS Project, MS Visio, ERWIN, Data Stage, OiM Oracle Identity Manager, Oracle, PLSQL, PC Media, Oracle BI Enterprise Edition 10g, CAs ALL Fusion Harvest, EDIFECS, HP Quality Center, VelocediClaredi, EDI, XML, DIAMOND, COSMOS, FACETS, LOGISTICARE, Rational Rose, Bugzilla, Snagit, Adobe Acrobat Professional, HP Quality Center. BNP Paribas, Mumbai, India July 2006  Aug 2008 Designation Lead Technical Business Analyst The project was to report corporate data warehouse for online trading system. The reporting system was to capture the KPI such as the trade volumes, number of trades, on the counter trades, and exchange trades, broker dealer trades, trade fees with respect to dimensions such as customers location, security type, exchange traded Fees payables, etc. Gathered the business requirements from the managers through JAD sessions, formal interviews and surveys and worked extensively with the users and with different levels of management to identify requirements, business events to develop functional specifications. Analyzed the AS-IS and TO-BE processes to understand the key findings, the short term considerations, the long term considerations and its benefits. Owned the entire reporting process. Interacted with the ETL team, developers, management, and account holders to get the requirements, document them, design templates, and write specifications. Identified data elements from the source systems, performed data analysis to come up with data cleansing and integration rules for the ETL process using Informatica. Analyzed research on operational procedures and methods and recommended changes for improvement, with an emphasis on automation and efficiency. Performed analysis and design of applications using OOAD techniques, UML and Design Patterns. Gathered all the requirements from the stakeholders based on the project scope and documented it in RequisitePro. Conducted interviews with various business users and Subject Matter Experts SMEs to collect Requirements and business process information, using Requisite Pro exercised all the different types of views in Requisite Pro Attribute matrix. Involved in the testing phase right from the Unit testing to the User Acceptance testing. Documented existing and proposed process flow, analyzed current and target system, and conducted GAP analysis from the reporting requirements to the existing data in ODS. Environment RUP, Requisite Pro, Data Stage, Rational Tools, Cognos 8, MS Project, MS Word, MS Excel, MS Visio, MS Office Suite, Rational Rose, Windows Vista, ERWIN, MS SQL Server, PLSQL, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS, Crystal Reports XI.