Kumar Raj 407-218-6395 Expert.java11gmail.com PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY 9 years of experience in Software Development Life Cycle SDLC with nice blend of expertise and leadership, be it requirements gathering, analysis OOA, prototyping, design OOD, development OOP or maintenance and testing of client-server applications. Strong experience in designing and developing component based reusable GUI based applications. Strong experience in Full Stack Web technologies like Core Java, J2EE, MVC Architecture Struts and spring, Servlets, Swing, Hibernate, mybatis, EJB, JBOSS, JMS, MQ Series, AJAX, JQuery, JSF, Web servicesREST and SOAP, Java Script, JSP, JSON, JQuery, JDBC, HTML, DHTML, CSS, and Custom Tag Libraries User defined JSTL, JDBC, XML, LOG4J. Hands on experience using IDEs like Eclipse RCP, Rational Application Developer RAD, and Web sphere Studio Application Developer, Rational Software Architect RSA. Educational experience in iOS software development iPhone and IPod Touch. Extensively worked on relational databases like Sybase, DB2, MS SQL Server, Oracle 9i and MySQL. Hands on experience in building Java server side and enterprise applications using the latest. technologies like Core Java, Multithreading, Swings, Spring IOC, Hibernate, Web services, JSF, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JMS, JDBC, XML, XSLT, DOM, SAX, JAXP, JAXB. Highly qualified in design and architectures of n-tier applications using IBM WebSphere MQ WMQSeries, WMB Message Broker. Experience in iOS software development iPhone and IPod Touch. During development of the plugin I create a symbolic link from the _pluginsgui_site to my checked out github project. see sources. Elasticsearch will provide all content under _site in a plugin as static html resources. Which is perfect for AngularJS. Proficient in implementation of web based systems using Struts Framework. Excellent Knowledge in developing applications using Spring Framework and iBATIS. . Expertise in ESB frameworks like spring, Jboss Fuse and Apache Camel. Experienced in developing and implementing Web Services using REST, SOAP, WSDL, CXF, AXIS, JERSEY, UDDI, XSD, JAX Band Spring Web-services. Comprehensive understanding with the capabilities, constraints and methodologies of open source and vendor specific XML based parsing technologies of SAX, DOM using JAXP Framework. Experience in developing applications involving Agile, Test Driven Development methodology using Apache Continuum and Emma Test coverage tool and SCRUM methodologies. Strong analytical and problem solving skills and a proven ability to be an effective team player with excellent time management skills. Technical Skills PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE California State Health Department PHI, San Jose, CA Mar2014  Till Date Role Sr.JAVA DEVELOPER Responsibilities Developed technical specifications for various back end modules from business requirements and specifications are done according to standard specification formats. Developed an AngularJS workflow manager leveraging Angular-UIs state router for flexible configuration and management of multi-step user input flows. Involved in developing in Ruby. Strong understanding and hands on experience setting up Elastic Search 1.7 in an AWS cloud environment. Developed multiple web applications, systems and automation tools using a ColdFusion front end. Worked with the Groovy  Grails framework. Designed Rule Engines Drools 3.04.0 Rule Engine, Blaze Rule Engine, ILOG Rule Engine. Proficient with Java Swing, AWT, SWT, Jboss and Hibernate . Experienced Portal technologies e.g. Life ray, JBOSS. Research about of JBPM process engine for use in the implementation of Flow Control System of People.Technologies used like Core Java, Swings, Spring 4.0 and 3.5 IOC, Hibernate 4.0, Web services. Build RestSOAP Web Services FUSE and Apache Camel. Used JAXM, Python for making distributed software applications communicate via SOAP and XMLWorked on NoSQL databases  Cassandra .Mongo db and Kafka. Worked extensively with Java, Android Touch frameworks and third party API including Java mail API. Experienced in building automation frame works using Python. Worked as iOS software development iPhone and IPod Touch. Designed and implemented the Android applications. Provided technical guidance during development of Scala applications. Managed and reviewed Hadoop log files. Developed and implemented MapReduce jobs used Hadoop to work with Big Data. Shared responsibility for administration of Hadoop, Hive and Pig. Developed quality code adhering to Scala coding Standards and best practices. Involved in the creation and development of the AWS SDK for PHP 2Thorough knowledge of the Ruby language and Ruby on Rails framework. Worked with JavaJ2EE or Python, Service Oriented Architecture methods and techniques. Used native Objective-C and Java to develop state-of-the-art mobile applications for iOS and Android. Worked on Linux, Java, Python, Groovy, Maven, Gradle. Worked on SQL and NoSQLMongoDB, Cassandra, Hadoop, data structures. Experienced worked Chef, Jenkins, Predix, WSO2, SAML, UNIX, databases, and networking. Designed used a JSON or XML based web API. Have used Hibernate framework for Database access from SOAP Web Service. Designed REST APIs that allow sophisticated, effective and low cost application integration. Involved in consuming, producing Restful web services using JAX-RS. Developed JavaScript libraries for error handling, Input validation and Event Handling. Worked in AngularJS supports declarative development documents. For the system integration. Expert in RDBMS and NoSQL data storage technologies like MongoDB. Involved in Hibernate and Spring ORM . Spring JDBC and Spring Transaction Management. Designed and developed screens in HTML, JSP with client side validations using JavaScript. Prepared unit test plans through applications such as Core Java, ORM and Backend Oracle. Environment Core JAVA, JDK 1.71.61.5, GWT,J2EE, Apache, REST WebSerivces, Ajax, EJB, Spring, Hibernate ORM, Struts, TIBCO, UNIX, Jboss, JDBC, JavaScript, JSP,HTML5, CSS3, JSF 2.0, JMS, Active MQ, Angular JS,GIT, SQL and Oracle 11g. General Motors  Detroit, Michigan Jan2013-Mar2014 Role JAVA J2EE Developer Responsibilities Involved in Requirement Analysis and Technical Design meetings and have created Technical Design Documents as per the Business Requirements. Performed graphs for Kafka, RabbitMQ and ActiveMQ. Implemented Service such as Camel Context along with a number of Component and Endpoint classes. Create the Infrastructure design for PROD, Performance, Development Elastic-search environments. Maintained and expand our AWS infrastructure, and provided mentorship to others on my team. Designed applications used Eclipse RCP framework. Experienced and add-on design practice, but as a core feature used by every Angular project. Expert in application written with the backbone.js framework along with JQuery, JQuery Templates. Involved in entire software development process for all assigned android application development projects requirement specification, design, implementation, testing and maintenance. Involved in installing, configuring SiteMinder policy server, Web agents, Netegrity Transaction Minder, Active Directory server LDAP and various Web Application servers. Design and manipulation of JBPM process for the client activities in order to manage the people queue for each activity. Experienced in API development, MongoDB, Reddis, OpenStack API development. Experienced in RDBMS and NoSQL data storage technologies like MongoDB. CloudAMIs instances and used the best of EC2, and other cloud instances. Worked in Cloud especially Amazon Web Services. Designed and developed Service layer using Struts 2.0 and 1.0framework. Assisted in installation, assembling and maintenance of latest versions of JBoss Application server. Technologies used Scala, AWS, Akka, NoSQL technologies such as Cassandra and Elastic Search. Strong Knowledge of core Java server-side programming. Worked with scripting skills like Python, perl, bash etc. Expert with the Groovy  Grails framework. Used API Management solutions e.g. WSO2 and MuleSoft. Used PHP and MySQL, Oracle, ASP and Cold Fusion. Learned Ruby on Rails, business rules, SEO and other advanced tools. Worked with the MULE ESB platform as a Developer. Worked on software development using Liferay Portal. AngularJS provides means to create abstractions, reusable chunks of functionality. Experienced with web services and web development languages in Python, Java. Developed and implemented UI controls and APIs with ExtJS. Experienced with SQL and NoSQLMongoDB, Cassandra, Hadoop, data structures. Used JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS3, and HTML5 as data and presentation layer technology. Experienced with NodesJs.. Experienced in Designing, Developing and Testing complex rules in DROOLS Fusion and DROOLS CEP. Developing Ant and Maven scripts to automate the compilation, deployment and testing of Web and J2EE applications to the above platforms. Wrote JUnit test cases for unit, integration, and functional tests, run automatically by HudsonJenkins in the builds triggered by each push to Git. Strong Knowledge working with MQ Series and JMS. Use Spring ORM to store JMS consumed messages into database. Provided estimation using internal estimation tool for the client requirements. Environment Core Java, J2EE, Angular JS,J2EE, SQL, Servlets , Struts, Unix, EJB, JDBC, JMS, GWT, HTML5, JavaScript, DB2, RCP, Jboss, REST Web Services, Eclipse, TIBCO, Apache Camel, Active MQ, Android, SQL, Web sphere Portal. Mercury Insurance, Dallas, TX Aug2012-Jan2013 Role JAVA Developer Responsibilities Involved in study of User Requirement Specification, Communicated with Business Analysts to resolve ambiguity in Requirements document. Participated in the design, architecture and development of a Java based content management system. CMS. knowledge on messaging systems like active MQ, rabbit MQ, kafka. Experienced in Core Java, spring, Struts and Angular JS,backbone Js. Worked in Agile Scrum Methodology. Responsible for deploying enterprise applications from Admin console and enabling security using LTPA and LDAP for admin console and application components on AIX. Translating business requirements into a Elastic Search implementation Integrated Java and Angular based application to Elastic Search tier via Spring 4 Restful Controllers communicating to a custom java utility wrapping the Jest API. Experienced with the Groovy  Grails . Worked with the AWS Elastic Beanstalk team to provide PHP support for the platform. Implemented clustering and throttling concepts for mule based solutions. Knowledge of Configuration of Docker Containers via Puppet etc. Experienced with Java, Scala or other OO technologies. Developed virtual platforms used Cloud computing, Clustered and Memory-Grid. Prepared the MQ software architecture document SAD documents based on the requirement. Implemened RedHat RHDS authentication solution for ActiveMQ Fuse. Experienced with Java  Python frameworks like Spring, Hibernate, Django, Celery. Developed an AngularJS workflow manager leveraging Angular-UIs state router for flexible configuration and management of multi-step user input flows. Used RabbitMQ for supports clustering, clustering is intended to facilitate scalability, not availability. Participated in understanding of ExtJS technologies and development tasks. Implemented multiple high-performance MongoDB replica sets on EC2 with robust reliability. Involved in configuration of Spring MVC and Integration with Hibernate. Developing automated process for builds and deployments using Jenkins, Ant, and Maven. Designed and implemented a Cassandra no SQL based database and associated RESTful web service that persists high-volume user profile data for vertical teams.. Develop consumer based features and applications using Ruby on Rails. Created Location Look up SOAP based web services using spring 3.0. Used Hibernate for Object relational Mapping and Persistence. Built rich prototypes and applications using Backbone.js, HTML5 local Storage and CSS3. Implemented Test Driven Development using frameworks like Junit, Selenium. Used Maven for building applications. Deployed applications on Web sphere 8.5 and Tomcat during development. Environment Core Java, JSP, J2EE, GWT, E-Commerce, Servlets, Spring, Struts, Angular JS, SOAP  REST WebSerivces, WSDL, JDBC, Hibernate ORM, JSF, UNIX, EJB, Eclipse RCP, XML, JAXB, GIT, Junit, Maven, PLSQL, Power Shell, Oracle 10g, Tomcat 6. Sprint Nextel - Herndon, VA Sept2011-Aug2012 Role Java Developer Responsibilities Involved in business requirements gathering, use case analysis and application design strategies. Involved in full Stack web development like Angular JS. Worked with Object oriented programming Java, Scala and common design patterns. Knowledge ofAngularJS supports automated testing via pervasive dependency injection - not merely. Responsible for developing batch jobs applications to generate Key Performance Indicator reports in CSV file format using Java, XML and developed DAOs to abstract business logic from data access using transaction management module and batch in Spring framework. Developed the custom web application implementing MVC Architecture, iBatis and spring frameworks. Responsible for developing business logic to retrieve voice messages to handsets by encoding to QCELP format to handset specific format like OGG and compose and forward messages from the handset. Implemented various J2EE Design patterns like Singleton, Business Delegate, and Transfer Object. Responsible for developing user Interface using Junit, Servlets, JSP, HTML, JavaScript to conduct unit testing as well as end to end testing. Attended and worked with agile scrum standup meetings. Environment Core Java, J2EE, JDK 1.5, Angular JS, HibernateORM, JSP, JSF, SDET, Unix, Servlets, Spring, MQ, Junit, iBatis, Web, JavaScript, Struts, HTML, ,CSS, XML, Eclipse IDE, Oracle 10g, Windows 7XP, CVS. Wells Fargo  Seattle, WA Oct2010-Aug2011 Role JavaJ2EEDeveloper Responsibilities Developed a GUI interface to administer a hardware application using XMLXSL transformations and JavaScript. Extensively used OOD concepts in overall design and development of the system. Designed and Implemented the J2EE  Struts with JDBC in Eclipse IDE. Work directly with management, vendors, and third parties to ensure database management applications operate at peak efficiency. Extensively worked on Java server side programming using Servlets, and JSP. CSS is used to style Web pages, XHTML and XML markup. Implemented Servlets to handle HTTP requests for on-line requests, credit card payments, registration and bug tracking. Using XML for dynamic display of options in select box and description on web page. Asynchronous messaging is done using JMS and created Queue for point  point messaging. REST based Web Services are used for accessing flight and hotel informations. Designed complex application database SQL statements for querying, updating and reporting using JDBC. Developed Junit test cases and performed integration and system testing. Environment Core JAVA, J2EE, Angular JS, XML, UNIX, Rational Application Developer RAD, Servlets, Java Script, JSP, CSS, JDBC, Struts1.2, SOAP, SDET, Eclipse3.2 with My Eclipse, PLSQL, CVS, Junit, Web Logic, Windows. ATT Middle town NJ Mar2009  Sept2010 Role Java web developer Responsibilities Coordinated with team members in gathering system requirements and specifications required for the redesign. Designed and developed the Application based on Model-View-Controller architecture. Involved in analysis, design, Coding and development, Implementation phase of the modules. Created external XML documents. Worked on JAVA J2EE team and designing DAO interface and implementation. Involved in Bug Fixing Debugging of the application. Involved in Developing User Interfaces using HTML and JSPs. Developed and published web-services using WSDL, SOAP and XML, JAXB. Implemented Web-Services to integrate between different applications internal and third party components using SOAP and RESTFUL services. Developed web pages with JSP and Servlets using HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, and XML. Used Apache Ant as the software build tool. Used Apache Maven for the over-all software project management. Environment Core Java, J2EE, HTML, MVC, JavaScript, JSP, Servlets, SOAP, WSDL, spring, CSS, UML, XML, HTTP, Eclipse, MVC, AJAX, Apache Maven. Informative tech - INDIA May2007Mar2009 Role Jr. Java Developer Responsibilities Developed a website where user can login and enter their personal information. Designed tables in the database to store the user data gathered from the online forms. User data is stored in Database and available when the user logs in again and can modify the data. Created Queues for each specific type of certificate. Developed a communication between the local databases with the central database to validate the credibility of the applicant. Creating and maintaining databases which include configuration, query optimization and de-normalization. Environment HTML, Java, SQL. EDUCATION Bachelors in Computer Science and Engineering,