Manohar Sr. Java Developer Email manohar.r7754gmail.com Cell 614 285-5486 Summary 9 Year of IT Experience is working with Java based frameworks and databases. Effective team player as well as individual performer with experience in Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, spring, Hibernate, SQL, PLSQL and Oracle, MySQL, NOSQL. Extensive experience in multiple Java and J2EE technologies such as Servlet, JSP, JSTL, Spring, Struts, Sitemesh, IBatis, Hibernate and JPA, XML, JSON, XSD, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JUnit, WSDL, SOAP, Restful Web Services Restlet, ActionScript 3.0 Well experienced in Working on Core Java, J2EE EJB, JSP  Servlets, JDBC, JMS, SQL, JQuery, HTML. Experience with Core Java with Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling, File handling, IO, Generics, Data structures and Collections, Garbage Collection. Expert in using testing, logging and building tools like JUnit, Log4J and Ant. Strong skills in API design, Enterprise Application Integration, Database Design and knowledge of various Architecture, design, Integration patterns and Application frameworks development. 4 years of experience in Apache Hadoop technology and core Hadoop technology stack which includes HDFS, Map Reduce programming, Hive, Pig, HBase and SQOOP. Experience with WebSphere Portal 7 development and IBM Workplace Web Content Management and Workplace Forms Strong proficiency in SMB POP IGMP SMTP and TCPIP protocols Conduct in-house and public workshops and training seminars Extreme Programming, Test-Driven Development, Agile Development, .NET Development, Design Patterns, Communicating with Tests seminar. Worked on the creating different screen using ExtJs worked on writing some Extjs Plugin. Good experience in using Amazon Web Services AWS and AWS SNSSQS for delivering messages. Experience in creating comprehensive web applications using MEAN stack implemented with MS SQL, Express, Angular 24 and Node.js, Java8. Proficient in designing and implementing web server solutions and deploying Java application servers like Apache Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere, Web logic on WindowsUNIX platform Extensively used JDBC Statement, Prepared Statement, Callable Statement and Result Set interfaces while providing database interaction with the RDBMS backend. Strong and recent experience with developing or working within an automated testing framework. Hands on Experience on Angular 2 technology for one complete project in rebasing the UI of the application using the techniques in Angular 24. Provided technical assistance for integration of Appian systems along with external systems such as SAP. Conducted detailed analysis to support designing and development of BPM applications. Implemented Hadoop based data warehouses, integrated Hadoop with Enterprise Data Warehouse systems. Expertise in the implementation of Core Java concepts of Java, J2EE Technologies JSP, Servlets, JSF, JSTL, EJB transaction implementation CMP, BMP, Message-Driven Beans, JMS, Struts, Spring, Swing, Hibernate, Java Beans, JDBC, XML, Web Services, JNDI, Multi-Threading, Data structures etc. Worked on the Implementation of system as an independent component to be supportedintegrated with Appian based BPM applications to deliver management capabilities using Appian 7.5 SAIL features such as Record Types, Record dashboards, SAIL Reports, Actions and Introduced the use of automated testing tools such as Cucumber to reveal and document, as well as drive development of, behavior in a large legacy code base mostly Java and Perl Lightbend Reactive Platform plus many other Scala libraries and frameworks. Confluent Platform Apache Kafka and its ecosystem and Reactive Kafka Used Web Sphere Application Server, Web Logic Application Server, JBoss and Apache Tomcat in all my projects and successfully deployed and compiled many of the applications on them. Used Bootstrap and Angular.JS, React.js and Node.js in effective web design. Motivation of peers and mentoring team members to achieve their respective annual object Experienced developing against SOLR Search Platform APIs developing Multi-Tier Web Applications and Server side Business Logic using J2EE, XML, WebSphere, WebLogic, Apache Tomcat, Enterprise Java Beans, Servlets, JSP, Struts, JDBC, DB2, Oracle, PLSQL. Familiar with data collection technologies like Kafka. Experienced in React JS and working with React Flux architecture. Experience in developing JAVAJ2EE, Spring4, Hibernate4 applications using IDEs such as Eclipse, RAD. Extensive experience in working with various databases like Oracle 11g12c, SQL Server and MySQL Hands on experience in Rational Suite of Products like Rational Rose in developing Use Cases, Sequence Diagrams using UML, Rational Suite. Expertise in configuring the Spring Application Context with dependency injection and using Spring Framework that can integrate Hibernate and Web Services Hands on experience with production support tool such as Jira, Remedy, Quality Center - bug tracking tool. Expertise with Spring Framework using components like MVC, Transactions, ORM and JDBC. Also used Hibernate ORM, JSF and Struts MVC frameworks. Has extensive knowledge on UNIX Shell scripting, FTP, SFTP. Experience with Design patterns like Singleton, Data Access Object, MVC Pattern and Agile, SCRUM methodology. Experience in working with ES6 features, used babble, web pack with ES5, React js. Expert in latest technologies and approaches for SOA based development and good understanding of SOA life cycle, SOA design Backbone principle, Service registry and various other SOA infrastructures. Skill set Professional Experiences ATT Telecom, Atlanta, GA Sep16  Till date Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Responsibilities Involved in analysis, design and documentation of the application model. Applied design patterns including MVC Pattern, Factory Design Pattern and Singleton Design Pattern. Worked on advanced UI design and full stack development using MEAN stack. Used spring4 framework for Dependency Injection and integrated with Hibernate. Involved in developing Spring Beans and wiring their dependencies. Extensively worked with Hibernate Query Language HQL to store and retrieve the data from Oracle database. Experience in Automation testing using Selenium Web Driver, JUnit and Maven. Used Apache Kafka Message Queues for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information between multiple business applications. Involved in developing an automation tool, in Java and Scala on Akka Framework Developed and deployed solution using several new technologies, including Linux - Ubuntu, Drupal and Apache SOLR. Conducted Automation testing using the Standards, guidelines and structured methodology in testing the application. Responsible for overall Docker  Kubernetes setup, configuration and Architecture. Configured and maintained a large scale Docker based PaaS environment using kubernetes Troubleshooted and resolved issues within the Docker and kubernetes environment Used Java 8 features like stream and Lambda expressions Build microservices for the delivery of software products across the enterprise. Recommend and develop strategy for integrating internal security model into new projects with Spring Security and Spring Boot. Used Rally issue tracking application for Agile management Integrated Jira with Rally tickets using Perl scripts and Jira-Rally plugin Create RFP Request for Proposal microservice to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC. Using cloud foundry to push application to Predix cloud which is specific to GE Digital. Created, implemented and managed Pivotal Cloud Foundry deployments Experienced in using Cloud Foundry CF CLI for deploying applications and other CF management activities Proficient with Shell, Python, Ruby, Perl, Power Shell, JSON, YAML, Groovy scripting languages. Familiar with concepts of Azure and OpenStack Cloud Based Technologies. Experienced in installing and troubleshooting CF installations on IAAS Azure, AWS etc. Responsible for developing microservices using GEs Predix platform for Industrial IoT apps and migrating existing monolithic app to microservice architecture in Predix. Developed an integration project called GCC using Predix services like UAA user authentication and authorization, Enterprise Connect connect predix cloud and your enterprise, Predix Machine connect edge devices on premise to cloud and send sensor data to cloud, Predix Asset service create and store machine asset models, Predix Analytic service analyze continuous sensor data as time series data. Developed web application using Predix web components using Polymer, CSS, HTML and CSS. Create Data Model for and initial Java JPA entities for RFP project. Utilize Camel to integrate microservices with other microservices and RabbitMQ messaging exchanges. Used SVN Backbone as a version controller. Moved the project to Java 8 to extensively use Lamda expressions and have better connectivity to Cloud in addition adding Spring Boot Libraries and UI Enhancement. Developed stored procedures, triggers and functions to process the data using NOSQL, PLSQL, Spring4, and Hibernate4 and mapped it to Hibernate4 Configuration File. Created tempo enabled forms using SAIL, design DB schema using nested CDT Contributed greatly to increases in code quality and productivity through his leadership and guidance in areas such as TestBehavior Driven Development, Refactoring, Pair Programming Extreme ProgrammingXP, and Agile Estimation and Planning Worked on the Implementation of system as an independent component to be supportedintegrated with Appian based BPM applications to deliver management capabilities using Appian 7.5 SAIL features Experienced in MEAN stack advancement MongoDB, CockroachDB, Express.JS, and AngularJS  NodeJS. Developed React.js applications using Redux architecture for front-end UI, and Node.js applications for backend. Used microservice architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka,Spring4 message broker Configured routes in Apache Camel using XML for routing messages between end points Developed bootstrap UI JS using with Angular JS, Hibernate4, NOSQL Development of Apache Struts web applications from concept to rollout Extensive experience on MVC architecture and using frameworks like Angular 24 and React JS for creating Single-Page ApplicationsSPA using concepts like Dependency Injection, Promises, Services, Scope, Controllers and Directives. Developing micro services using Java Spring Boot and GoLang with Docker deployments Added routing and developed factories, worked on root level variables and functions Developed Unit and E2E test cases using Node JS. The tech stack is AngularJS, Express and innovative server side technologies like Node.js, MongoDB MEAN Stack. Experience with Front-end JavaScript frameworks like Angular JS, Node JS. And with the creation of RESTful Web service. Used the light weight container of the Spring Frame work to provide architectural flexibility for inversion of controller IOC. Experience with Python, Hadoop, Mongo DB. Created Type Script reusable components and services to consume REST APIs using component based architecture provided by Angular 24. Implementing the Big Data solution using Hadoop, hive and Informatics 9.5.1 to pullload the data into the HDFS system. In depth knowledge of Apache Cassandra architecture. Experience in installing, configuring and monitoring DataStax Cluster Enterprise Edition. Experience in deploying the Cassandra cluster in cloud, on premises, data storage and disaster recovery. Experience in designing data models in Cassandra and working with Cassandra Query Language Developed Keyword Driven Framework Using Selenium Web Driver and Java. Involved in design and development of keyword-driven automation framework using Selenium Webdriver. Analysis of test requirement and automation feasibility. Learning automation tools like Selenium and QTP. Used Eclipse and Tomcat web server for developing  deploying the applications. Worked on different Automation tooling techniques to support reportingdevelopment and the CICD pipeline. Used Gwildor node application to configure repositories and compare github tags. Setup and benchmarked HadoopH Base clusters for internal use Implemented continuous integration  deployment CICD through Jenkins for Hadoop jobs. Developed and Implemented new UIs using Angular JS and HTML, NOSQL, Java8. Developed Spring Configuration for dependency injection by using Spring IOC, Spring Controllers. Experienced in Responsive Web Design technology with or without framework like Bootstrap. Expertise in AngularJS controllers, directives, factories, services, routing, DOM manipulation using JavaScript, jQuery and Angular JS. Experience in MEAN Mongo DB, Express, JSON,AJAX,CSS, Angular24 and Node JS Stack application development Worked on Solr, Elastic Search, Kafka, Flume, Mango DB, CockroachDB, and Cassendra Extract the data from Oracle and push to Apache Kafka Queue using Golden Gate. Implementing Spring MVC and IOC methodologies. Used Java 8 Method References feature to point to methods by their names and also used functional Interfaces. Used Scala for coding the components in Play and Akka. Used scala scripts for spark machine learning libraries API execution for decision trees, ALS, logistic and linear regressions algorithms. Implemented multi - data center and multi-rack Cassandra cluster. Good conceptual understanding and experience in cloud computing applications using Amazon EC2, S3, EMR. Experience in managing multi-tenant Cassandra clusters on public cloud environment - Amazon Web Services AWS-EC2. Managing Cassandra clusters using Datastax Opscenter. Experience in Cassandra systems backup and recovery Currently working on developing Server less functioning using AWS lambda with JAVA Developed common reusable component libraries CRUD Scaffolding to be reused in different projects throughout the companys IT team using GWT, Sencha, spring data, JPA. Create BI reports using reactive web frameworks using Scala Play  D3.js Worked with RxJava ReactiveX for asynchronous composition and manipulation of data and events using Observers and Observables in the application. Expert in implementing unified data platform to gather data from different sources using Kafka and Java Producers and consumers. Loaded data in elastic search from Datalake and Optimized the full search function using Elastic Search. Developed Framework components for Struts Presentation tier, Business tier and Resource tier Implemented application specific exception handling and logging frame work using Log4j,Hibernate4 Implemented Apache Kafka to provide a unified, high-throughput, low-latency platform for handling real-time data feeds Involved in developing the component which provides the required information to Reporting system to generate the trend analysis reports for user attempts, success, user failures and system failures. Involved in developing an automation tool, in Java and Scala on Akka Framework Involved in complete development of Agile Development MethodologySCRUM and tested the application in each interaction. Experienced in using Scala, Java and Python frameworks for BigdataSpark engine requirements. Involved in with xml, MVC, Backbone, svn Synfony2. Worked with Angular.js routers, forms, modules, DOM, events, expressions, controllers, filters and Http Request. Experience in different Hadoop distributions like Cloudera CDH3  CDH4 and Horton Works Distributions HDP and MapR 2. Developed Spark code using Scala and Spark-SQL for faster testing and data processing. Setting up the Spark Streaming and Kafka Cluster and developed a Spark Streaming Kafka App. Imported millions of structured data from relational databases using Sqoop import to process using Spark and stored the data into HDFS in CSV format. MEAN stack implementation, Angular.JS Full-Stack generator generator-angular-full stack, and actually run, edit, and deploy an application. Involved in converting HiveSQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDD, Scala. Improve the performance of the application by using the Performance Tuning and Time lines for each module of the Application. Based on Time lines decrease the page loads and increase the total performance of the application. Implementation of Struts - Configuration Files, Validation Files, Interceptors, Filters, Listeners for Modules. Implemented Core Java Methodologies like Interfaces, Collections, Customized Exceptions and Multi-Threading. Designing and developed Micro Services using MEAN Stack node.js, Mongo DB, Neo4J, Elastic search on Cisco Private Cloud OpenStack Platform Developed the Application making use Java 8s new Streams API and parallel Streams to partition the streams. Development of Apache Struts web applications from concept to rollout Designed and developed the process of synchronizing and Multi-Threading for each module of the application. Experiences in Web Programming and User Interface Development having hand on experience on python, MySQL. Programming experience in node.js, mongo db, java and MySQL, NOSQL. Solved Production Support defects by using tool HP Tracing. Based on priority of the defect solve the all production support defects. Designed and developed the login portal using framework Angular 2 along with HTML5, CSS3 and Type Script. Extensively used Java 8 features Lambda Expressions, Streams Used Java 8 Method References feature to point to methods by their names and also used functional Interfaces. Developed the Application making use Java 8s new Streams API and parallel Streams to partition the streams. Used micro service architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka, Spring4 message broker Written micro services using Spring Boot and Spring Data for Dynamo DB Used Subversion for activities tracking Version Controlling and Change Management that is tracking structure of folders, maintaining global revision number for the whole repository and Clear Case operations Used Hibernate Mapping to form persistence objects to interact with Database Environment Java8, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, HTML, Spring4, Hibernate4 DHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, XML, XSLT, Eclipse, Spring Web MVC, NOSQL, Hibernate 4.0, SOAP,JSON,CSS, JAXP, JAXB, Oracle 11g, SQL, JUNIT, Java8 , Cloud Foundary ,Reactive Systems, Reactive programming Novartis, East Hanover, NJ Nov14  Aug16 Sr. Java Developer Responsibilities Development, enhancement and testing of the Web Methods flow services and Java services. Used web services for interaction between various components and created SOAP envelopes. Paypal had their own application stack for REST based Java application, understood their architecture before design and development. Proficient coder in multiple languages and environments including Python, Django, C, C and SQL, NOSQL. Experienced in using Scala, Java and Python frameworks for BigdataSpark engine requirements. Implementation of Struts - Configuration Files, Validation Files, Interceptors, Filters, Listeners for Modules. Implemented continuous integration  deployment CICD through Jenkins for Hadoop jobs Experience in different Hadoop distributions like Cloudera CDH3  CDH4 and Horton Works Distributions HDP and MapR 2. Hands on experience in Html, CSS Java Script, BootStrap, Ajax, php. Developed custom spring boot starters in existing Microservice Framework to provide for developers Cloud-native microservice environment like Centralized configuration, service registry and discovery, circuit breaker, monitoring and distributed tracing so developer can focus on writing business logic. Developed and enhanced some configurable camel routes in framework using yml file configuration. Enhanced some spring boot starters which hold dependencies and code. Developed Junit tests, integration test using Mockito. Experience in performance tuning a Cassandra cluster to optimize writes and reads Involved in the process of data modeling Cassandra Schema Installed and Configured DataStax OpsCenter for Cassandra Cluster maintenance and alerts. Benchmarked Cassandra cluster based on the expected traffic for the use case and optimized for low latency Built Cassandra Cluster on both the physical machines and on AWS Assisted Development teams to migrate applications to Docker based PaaS platform using Kubernetes. Experienced in defining Application Deployment Solution on Docker based PaaS environment and migrating applications to Kubernetes and Docker platform Designed and implemented required Failover mechanisms in a DockerKubernetes Ecosystems. Automated Cassandra Buildsinstallationmonitoring etc Created frontend screens using GWT framework. Loaded data in elastic search from Datalake and Optimized the full search function using Elastic Search. Expertise in AngularJS controllers, directives, factories, services, routing, DOM manipulation using JavaScript, jQuery and AngularJS. Experience in MEAN MongoDB, CockroachDB, Express, Angular Js and NodeJS Stack application development Used Elastic search for Real time analytics and a Full text search functionality Subject matter expert in enterprise search engine analysis, design, development and systems integration. Search engines include Autonomy IDOL Server, MOSS 2007, Endeca, LuceneSolr and Microsoft FAST 2010 for SharePoint 2010, SharePoint 2013. Experience in working with the NoSQL, Mongo DB, and Apache Cassandra. Resolving scalability and performance issues both in Applications as well as in Web sphereWeb Logic Application Servers. Developed the Application making use Java 8s new Streams API and parallel Streams to partition the streams. Used micro service architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka, Spring4 message broker Written micro services using Spring Boot and Spring Data for Dynamo DB Developed Framework components for Struts Presentation tier, Business tier and Resource tier Experienced in MEAN stack advancement MongoDB, CouchbaseDB, Express.JS, AngularJS NodeJS. Experience in developing Web based GUIs using JSP, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript and its frameworks like JSON, Action Script, DOJO, Node JS, Angular JS, JQuery, EXT JS and Ajax. Modularized front end CSS and JS code with Sass.Built a real-time mouseclick user analytics web service with Node.js Involved in developing an automation tool, in Java and Scala on Akka Framework Experience in web applications creation with HTML5, Ajax, JQuery, Backbone.js, and CSS3. Performed UNIX Shell scripting for the application. Worked on Solr, Elastic Search, Kafka, Flume, MangoDB, CockroachDB and Cassendra Extract the data from Oracle and push to Apache Kafka Queue using Golden Gate. Used Apache Kafka Message Queues for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information between multiple business applications. Involved in developing an automation tool, in Java and Scala on Akka Framework. Implemented search engines by using Angular JS filter to make the data searchable and sortable. Involved in converting HiveSQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDD, Scala. Experience in development of JavaScript for client side validations. Designeddeveloped UI with AJAX, HTML, DHTML and JavaScript for interactive web pages. Expert in implementing unified data platform to gather data from different sources using Kafka and Java Producers and consumers. Design the J2EE components of the Restful Web Services and scheduled Java batch jobs based application in UML. Used Scala for coding the components in Play and Akka. Used scala scripts for spark machine learning libraries API execution for decision trees, ALS, logistic and linear regressions algorithms. Created Web Services SOAP between different components and also exposed few web services to client apps get metadata for the specific entities and documents. MEAN stack implementation, AngularJS Full-Stack generator generator-angular-full stack, and actually run, edit, and deploy an application. Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language. Developed the application using Struts Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller MVC architecture. Front end design using HTML CSS Bootstrap. Implemented Business processes such as user authentication, Account Transfer using Session EJBs. Implemented Apache Kafka to provide a unified, high-throughput, low-latency platform for handling real-time data feeds Extensively developed stored procedures, triggers, functions and packages in oracle SQL, NOSQL, PLSQL. Developed the front end using HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, JSP, CSS, JQuery, and XML. Developed POJOs, Data Access Object DAO which handles all database operations using Hibernate. Developed Spark code using Scala and Spark-SQL for faster testing and data processing. Setting up the Spark Streaming and Kafka Cluster and developed a Spark Streaming Kafka App. Imported millions of structured data from relational databases using Sqoop import to process using Spark and stored the data into HDFS in CSV format. Extensively used Java 8 features Lambda Expressions, Streams Used Java 8 Method References feature to point to methods by their names and also used functional Interfaces. Developed the Application making use Java 8s new Streams API and parallel Streams to partition the streams. Used microservice architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message broker Experience on Protractor in end-to-end test framework for Angular JS applications and also performed in jasmine, mocha, and chai. Experience in using design patterns and UI frameworks such as MVC, Struts, Hibernate, NodeJS, and spring. Strong knowledge in developing and designing web 2.0 application according to Information architecture and Usability standards using Ajax, JQuery, Backbone.js, XML, Symfony 2, CSS3 and MVC frameworks. Implementing the Big Data solution using Hadoop, hive and Informatica 9.5.1 to pullload the data into the HDFS system. Setup and benchmarked HadoopH Base clusters for internal use Implementation of the Business logic layer for Mongo DB Services. Implemented the Animation and styling using CSS3 and JQuery. Developed logging module-using Log4J to create log files to debug as well as trace application. Developing data access layer using IBATIS -ORM and JDBC. Involved in JUnit Testing, debugging, and bug fixing. Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions and developed WAR framework to alert the client and production support in case of application failures. Environment Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, HTML, DHTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, XML, XSLT, Eclipse, Spring Web MVC, Hibernate 4.0, WSDL, SOAP, SQL, HP Quality Center, JUNIT, Ant. Prudential, Newark NJ Jun13  Oct14 Sr. Java Developer Responsibilities Responsible for coding with the use of Object Oriented Principles and implementing MVC with JSP, Struts. Developed the Spring AOP programming to configure logging for the application Developed user interfaces using Java Server Pages using HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS  JavaScript. Experience with Python development under Linux OS Debian, Ubuntu, RedHat Linux. Designed different UI aspects for improved performance of the application by using GWT. Developed code using Core Java to implement technical enhancement following Java Standards. Proficient in Node.js, Mongo db, Redis and Linux flavor. Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle SDLC. Used JPA Java Persistence API with Hibernate as Persistence provider for Object Relational mapping. Expertise in client scripting language and server side scripting languages like JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, DOJO, bootstrap, Node.js, Angular.js, backbone.js, Require.js, JSF and JSP. Developed the Front end for the application using HTML5, Angular JS, JSP and JavaScript. Developed and implemented Swing, Spring and J2EE based MVC Model-View-Controller framework for the application Optimized the Cassandra cluster by making changes in Cassandra configuration file and Linux OS configurations. Setup, upgrade and maintain Cassandra DSE clusters. Tune databases and provide design changes and support stress tests to proactively fix problems. Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and Spring. Data Warehouse DW data integrated from different sources in different format PDF, TIFF, JPEG, web crawl and RDBMS data MySQL, oracle, SQL server etc. Used XML and JSON for transferringretrieving data between different Applications. Also wrote some complex PLSQL queries using Joins, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Cursors, and Indexes in Data Access Layer. Designed and developed SOAP Web Services using CXF framework for communicating application services with different application and developed web services interceptors. Ant build file creation and usage of Maven Ivy tool set, along with dynamic JUnit report generation in PDF format. Developed dynamic web pages using Python, Django Frameworks. Worked as backend developer of this app using Nodejs, Socket io and mongo db. Implemented the project using JAX-WS based Web Services using WSDL, UDDI, and SOAP to communicate with other systems. Experience in developing UI applications using HTML, HTML5, Jquery, and AJAX, AngularJS, Backbone JS. Developed back end interfaces using embedded SQL, PLSQL packages, stored procedures, Functions, Procedures, Exceptions Handling in PLSQL programs, Triggers. In depth exposure to creating API for internal and external application using REST and SOAP based design. Open source framework like Jersey used for create REST API Managing Source code in CVS and SVN and Project Documents in Share Point. Environment JAVA, J2EE, JDK JSP, XML, JSF, Struts , Web Services ,Spring MVC, JNDI, JDBC, SQL, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, Oracle, SOAP UI Tool, SVN, SQL, ANT. Citizens Financial Group, Atlanta GA Dec11  May13 Java Developer Responsibilities Design, Development, testing and debugging of new software and enhancements to existing software. Resolving design conflicts and using best coding practices. Developed common reusable component libraries CRUD Scaffolding to be reused in different projects throughout the companys IT team using GWT, Sencha, spring data, JPA. Getting signoff from the users after User acceptance testing. Used JavaScript, JQuery and ExtJs to create UI on the Front End. Developed major websites and services by including Mongo DB as backend software. Used various libraries of JavaScript like jQuery, backbone.js, underscore.js and node.js. Translation of business requirements to information technology. Developed business modules using Hibernate  Spring frame work technologies. Experience in handling WebLogic scripts for server management and application deployment Configuration of application using the Spring, Hibernate, DAOs, Action Classes, Java Server pages. Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing python, in order to build an interactive web based solution. Working as Cassandra Admin Datastax DSE-DevOps-NoSQL DB on 39 node cluster. Administration and maintenance of the cluster using OpsCenter, Devcenter, Linux, Node tool etc. Data migration from Teradata to Cassandra using Teradata Fexport  Cassandra loader. Web pages are developed using Java Server Pages, HTML, DHTML, EXTJS, AJAX, and JavaScript. Performed unit testing with JUnit. Used Cobertura tool to analyze the code covered by Unit test cases. Used Oracle WebLogic 10.x as my Application Server for this application. Developed new modules using JSF 2.0 Framework Built an online system using XML, Javascript, AJAX, Strust 2.0, JDBC Involved in technical Documentation for the module Designed and created SQL Server Database, Stored Procedures Extensively used XML, JSP, Javascript, AJAX, Servlets to drive the application  request user input from backend Involved in designing and developing Customized tags using JSP taglib Implemented Model View Control MVC architecture using Struts Framework and Spring framework Developed browser-based Java Server Faces front-end to an AS400 system Worked on Web Sphere Application Server Used Ajax to provide dynamic features where applicable Used MVC pattern for GUI development in JSF and worked closely with JSF lifecycle, Servlets and JSPs are used for real-time reporting which is too complex to be handled by the Business Objects Created several JSPs and populated them with data from databases using JDBC Working on Session maintenance was done using Servlets Developed and Designed Interfaces using JSP and Servlets . Used ANT automated build scripts to compile and package the application. Used Jira for bug tracking and project management. Environment JAVA, J2EE, JDK, Servlets, XML, Web Services JAX-WS SOAP, Spring MVC, JDBC, SQL, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, SOAP UI Tool, SVN, SQL, Apache Axis 1.2, ANT, JUnit,. ATA SOFTWARE P LTD, Bangalore Jul08  Nov11 Java Developer Responsibilities Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle SDLC of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development. Developed a prototype of the application and demonstrated to business users to verify the application functionality. Developing front end of application using HTML, CSS, backbone.js, javascript, jQuery. Design, develop and implement MVC Pattern based Keyword Driven automation testing framework utilizing Java, JUnit and Selenium WebDriver. Used automated scripts and performed functionality testing during the various phases of the application development using Selenium. Used Angular js framework where data from backend is stored in model and populated it to UI. Prepared user documentation with screenshots for UAT User Acceptance testing. Environment Java, Javascript, HTML, CSS, Xpath, Selenium Web driver, Eclipse, JUnit, Jmeter, Jira, Windows, Mac OSX, Oracle 10g, Agile Methodology. Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Struts Framework including JSP, Servlets, EJB, Form Bean and Action classes. Hands on experience with MVC Javascript frameworks such as Backbone.js, Angular.js and Node.js. Implemented server side tasks using Servlets and XML. Helped developed page templates using Struts Tiles framework. Implemented Struts Validation Framework for Server side validation. Developed JSPs with Custom Tag Libraries for control of the business processes in the middle-tier and was involved in their integration. Implemented Struts Action classes using Struts controller component. Developed Web services SOAP through WSDL in Apache Axis to interact with other components. Implemented EJBs Session beans for business logic. Used parsers like SAX and DOM for parsing xml documents and used XML transformations using XSLT. Wrote stored procedures, triggers, and cursors using Oracle PLSQL. Created and deployed web pages using HTML, JSP, Javascript and CSS. Wrote JUnit Test cases for performing unit testing. Used Rational Clear Case as Version control. Implemented JavaJ2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object DTO, Data Access Object and Service Locator. Interact with clients to understand their needs and propose design to the team to implement the requirement. Built Angular js framework including MVC architectures, different modules, specific controllers templates, custom directives and custom filters. Environment Java1.5, JSP, JDBC, Spring Core 2.0, Struts 1.2, Hibernate 3.0, Design Patterns, XML, Oracle, PLSQL Developer, Web services, SOAP, XSLT, Jira.