MITALI BARMAN Columbus,Ohio Contact 281-657-7941 Mail-prasannaksuntechpros.com OBJECTIVE Seeking challenging career in areas of Banking,Health Care,Insurance and Service sector organization to use my skills and experience effectively to contribute to the ultimate growth of the organization . BACKGROUND SUMMARY Business Analyst with 7 years of financial, banking expertise in Business Analysis,GAP Analysis and developingcreating business process documents. In depth strong working knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle SDLC phases such as Planning, AnalysisDesign, Development, and Testing for the softwaresystem development process Strong experience in preparing Business Requirements Document BRD, Use Case Specifications,User Stories Well acquainted with Workflows and UML Unified Modeling Language diagrams such as, Use case diagrams, Swimlane diagram and process flow diagram Worked extensively on SCRUM Techniques. Active facilitator of Joint Application Development JAD,questionnaire techniques sessions for requirements elicitation and brainstorming ideas. Multi-Tasking and Organizational Aptitudes with proven experience in Development and Implementation of Strategies. Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, capable of communicating with highly technical engineering teams. Exceptional mediator between external and internal customers, capable of interpreting their needs and positions to ensure the success of the projects. Experienced in vendor management, training users  peers, building consensus In depth experience of Test Documents preparation and Smoke Testing,Sanity Testing,Regression testing,Retesting and UAT testing. Attended training on Heath care domain and prepared some projects on implementation of new health care reform act like updating from ICD9 to ICD10 as well as supporting existing project like EDI transaction queries.Good understanding of Claim adjudication system,EDI file transaction . SKILL SET WORK EXPERIENCE Client  JerseySTEMNon Profit Organization November 2017 Till date Role Product OwnerBusiness AnalystVolunteer Project Description JerseySTEM is a network of parents, professionals, students and educators whose goal is to promote excellence in Science, Technology, Engineering and Math STEM education. They are dedicated to partnering with local schools and other organizations to create and enhance STEM-oriented educational opportunities as part of students paths towards college and career readiness, and to develop effective STEM programs and initiatives that engage students and educators. JerseySTEM is also committed to bridging the gender gap in STEM education and sharing STEM-related opportunities with underprivileged students and communities.Our Project scope is to implement Volunteers for Salesforce to manage and maintain the Volunteers and their contribution towards JerseySTEM and integrate it with JerseySTEM website.Next phase will involve in creating a Community within Salesforce to enable the Volunteers to Create their account with JerseySTEM through Community and use the Chatter facility to discuss any technical issue and get benefited from there. Responsibilities Conduct various conference call with Business user to understand the current state of the process and their business Need. Elicitation of requirements by using interviews, observation, Joint Application DevelopmentJAD Session, brainstorming sessions, and documents analysis. Prepared high level requirements and got that validated from Business user. Preparation and grooming of Product backlog and writen detailed,short,simple,testable and decomposed requirements in the form of User Stories . Prepared mock up sample screens using Wireframing tool Lucid Chart and give our business user a walkthrough of the look and feel,navigation and layout of the screen Facilitated Scrum planning meetings to Coordinate between End user,Project Sponsor,Developer and QA Teams and resolved any confusionambiguity development team had about requirements specification. Analyze and prepared data modeling to import the data from JerseySTEM database They use google sheetto Salesforce. Clean up of data,mapping the data to Salesforce data set and migration of data using data import Wizard and Data Loader. Presented Demo to end user at the end of each Sprint. Facilitated and Participated in Sprint Review and Sprint Retrospective Meeting Prepared Standard Operation Procedure of the existing process I.e of the current procedure so that that can be analyzed and understood to prepare the to be state of the project. Client UBS,Stamford March 2013 - April 2015 Role Business Analyst EmployerCognizant Technology Solutions Project DescriptionWorked for Banking Product Services team on automation of a trade reconciliation tool that performs all the reconciliation functions of the loan trades. Primary responsibility was to develop functional specification documents for the banking product services Loan closer team by gathering ,analyzing and documenting requirements from various business users associated to the system as well as by analyzing external factors .Acts as InterfaceBridge between Banking Product Service Team and Technical Team. Responsibilities Conducted interviews with key business users to collect requirement and business process information regarding the trade confirmation system. Elicitation of requirements by using interviews, observation, Joint Application DevelopmentJAD Session, brainstorming sessions, and documents analysis. Preparation ,analysis and updating Product backlog and user stories on the basis of discussion with client stakeholders and SMEs. Facilitated Scrum planning meetings to Coordinate between clients,product owner,Developer and QA Teams and resolved any confusionambiguity development team had about requirements specification. Analysis of Client requirements, generating workflow process and necessary documents for the project. Shadow and assist some of the product owner activities by providing high level estimates,prioritising stories for the sprint,maintaining backlog and release plans. Performed extensive requirement analysis including gap analysis. Worked as a liaison between technology and the business clients to improve business processes and support critical business strategies. Determined userbusinessfunctional requirements. Created UML diagrams including Use Case diagrams, Activity Diagrams using MS Visio . Developed non-functional requirements and documented them as Business Rules, Quality attributes, constraints documents. Functioned as the primary liaison between the business line, operations, and the technical areas throughout the project cycle Facilitate Scrum planning meeting,Scrum review meeting and Scrum Retrospective meeting for the scrum Team Worked with QA team to design test plan and test cases for User Acceptance Testing UAT and Back End Testing. Used SQL query extensively to facilitate adhoc query from manager. Used HP Quality Center to track defect management life cycle UBS Investment Bank January 2012  March 2013 Business Analyst Employer  Cognizant Technology Solutions Senior Business Analyst for Banking and Financial Services of UBS. The project dealt with designing and developing a technologically advanced platform incorporating software, information and communications systems designed to address the business needs of storing all the email communications between UBS sideIncluding front office,middle office and operation team and counterparts side for all the credit derivative trades so that any information is not lost and any dataemail can be retrieved in case of any discrepancies in future.It included the development of an Internal web Portal and a database which allowed the userbankerfinancial analyst to route the information and emails pertaining to a particular trade to the web portal and retrieve the same in case of any disagreement later on. Responsibilities Developed business requirements document BRD based on Joint Application DevelopmentJAD sessions,stakeholder  SMEs interviews and validated those requirements with them to make sure that business needs are clearly understood and correctly documented. Directly interacted with clients to elicit the requirements and translate them into terms the development team can comprehend Developed Mock-up screens for the client to visualize the end product and suggest required enhancements. Facilitate several meeting with technical team to give them walkthrough of the requirements and the system specification Handled any issuesqueries technical team pointed out. Identified and resolved issues between business requirements and technical constraints. Served as liaison to business throughout the software development life cycle Asssisted Quality Assurance team to prepare the test case artifacts on the basis of approved BRD and addressed any quiries they had in terms of requirement specifications. Prepare some Test Cases and test Script to facilitate the UAT and Manual testing Used JIRA extensively to handle defect management life cycle. Provided support for few months after deployment of the project. UBS September 2010  January 2012 Business Analyst Employer  Cognizant Technology Solutions Worked with UBS to provide an enhancement of an existing Internal Legacy tool that captured the credit trades that did not flow from the Internal booking system to electronic confirmation system .The enhancement project mainly focused on updating the tool on daily basis and generating a report end of the day from the tool along with the error messagereason as to why the trade did not flow .This report was utilized by the Operation teamsometimes trader to further investigate. Responsibilities Facilitate client interviews and workshops to gather ,understand and set clients project goals,objectives,complex business needs and potential opportunities. Perform GAP Analysis of the existing functionality of the tool and highlighted the functional discrepancies and relevant solutions were suggested and implemented. Timely delivery of the scope documents,Functional requirement specification,process workflows,Use Cases and Defect Trackers Prepare Test Cases and test Script to facilitate the UAT and Manual testing Developed Mock-up screens for the client to visualize the end product and suggest required enhancements. Credit Suisse September 2008  September 2010 Financial Analyst Employer  Eclerx Services Limited Worked with Eclerx under the prestigious flagship project of Credit Suisse. The prime profile was reflective of knowledge and implementation of core derivative knowledge. The product handled was credit derivative swap CDS.The areas of expertise is understanding CDS product,studing implication of the trade, resolving key and vital breaks, co-ordination with counterparties and internal system and finally effective resolution of non agreeing parameters within a benchmark time frame. Responsibilities Assisting team in their responsibility of confirming CDS trades and working on trades . Escalating and contacting counterparties to get the trades confirmed Escalating discrepancies to Front office and middle office following up till the issue is resolved Training team members and auditing all the mails of the team members  rectifying errors Preparing daily reports and sending it to senior management and stake holders. Liaising with Technical team to improve the internal tools to meet clients requirement Performing GAP analysis and highlighted the need of various macros to reduce human error and improve task completion duration. Training New Joinees on different derivative products Provide Monthly report to management on our banks performancegoodbad with different clients so that relationship manager can discuss issues with client ,come to a best solution to make sure that our confirmation target and business with client gets increased in future. Facilitate meeting with new joinees to keep the track of their training. Educational Qualification  Post Graduate Certification in International Business Practice Post Graduate Certification in International Business Practice,New York ,USA validated and awarded by St. Marys University College,Twickenham,London Diploma in management Post Graduate programme in Finance from Indira School of Career studies , India . B. Sc Hons Statistics  Guwahati University,India