Muralidhar Chandrashekar ncmuralidhargmail.com 1 314 814 9041 St Louis, MO PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY Currently working for the client ATT in St Louis, MO as Manager-Testing with 2 PMs reporting from onshore and a testing team of 10 from offshore. E2E testingQA of ATT Mobile Apps on different platforms  iOS, Android  Windows. 14 years of IT experience which includes major contribution towards Project Management, Agile PMO, Quality Management, Analysis, Testing and Resource Management. Proactive, performance-driven IT professional, with Project Manager experience of more than 5 years. Extensive experience in SDLC using Waterfall and Agile Scrum methodologies. Well experienced in Creating Product Plan, Schedule, Estimation and monitoring. Extensive experience in different Tools Quality Center, JIRA, Rally, TDP - IBM Rational Having experience of working in the Global Delivery Model for more than 8 years and has experience in handling multiple projects at a time both at Offshore and Onsite. Extensive experience in Agile Ceremonies and Methodologies. Daily interaction with technology staff including Developers, DevOps Engineers, Product management Product Owners, and Program management to identify scope of projects and engage in creating Project plan, schedule, monitoring  execution of projects till closure. Manage Large and big projects worth of 4 to 5 Million across multiple teams and different locations. Good Exposure to Global Delivery Model, done resourcing, planning, estimation, performance appraisal, team building for 20- 30 resources at Onsite  Offshore. Excellent communication, interpersonal, analytical skills and strong ability to perform as part of a team. Great understanding of Agile Manifesto, Frameworks and Principles. Exposure to Mobile Automation tool  ZAP-fiX for automating test scripts to be run on various mobile devices. Around 2yrs of experience on VOIP Protocol  SIP 4 years of experience in telecom switching projects in Java. 5 years of onsite exposure at client locations in USA, UK. TECHNICAL COMPETENCIES SOFT SKILLS Project planning  resource allocation. Very good customer interaction skills. Ability to multi-task, and work under project pressure. Excellent verbalwritten communication skills, teamwork and interpersonal skills. Ability to apply creativity and intelligence to craft test suites that uncover product defects. Ability to debug complicated system-level issues. Reproduction and debugging of customer issues, handling of field queries. Preparation of Estimation, Effort Tracking , Customer Co-ordination, Test reporting. Scheduling, Defect Tracking, Metrics Reporting. Defect Prediction  Management. On time delivery of testing tasks. Team Handling Goal Settings, Evaluation, Employee Development. Manage day to day operations for assigned staff and projects, including project management tasks such as resource allocation and prioritization, business case estimates, software quality assessments, and time reporting. Also includes anticipating needs and implications of decisions, proactively working to identify, clarify, resolve issues, and removing barriers within and outside the organization in a timely manner. Proven ability to engage and focus team members on highest priority, highest risk tasks. Self-motivated, apply good judgment, and willing and able to mentor others. ACADEMICS MBA in International Business 2010 through distance learning from Pondicherry University, India. Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science 2002, with an aggregate of 74 from Bangalore University, India. PROJECTS SUMMARY Integration System Testing of ATT Mobile Apps on various mobile platforms Mar2013-Present Role Project Manager Responsibilities Plan, execute, and finalize projects within triple constraints working in an OnshoreOffshore delivery model - delivering on time, within budget and scope objectives, including acquiring resources and coordinating efforts of team members to deliver projects according to plan. Identify, effectively communicate, resolve project issues and risks and develop risk mitigation plans. Effectively communicate project health to stakeholders. Coach, mentor, and motivate team members, influencing them to take positive action and accountability for assigned work. Environment iOS, Android and Windows native apps for ATT mobile, tablets. With a team of 2 PMs reporting to me at onshore and 10 offshore testing resources, Im responsible for delivering the ATT mobile applications into the market on different platforms such as iPhone, Android  Windows. These apps are both in native and browser version. Every 3-4 months we work on new versions of the app and after several rounds of QA testing on the app, make it available to the end user. Have in depth knowledge of E2E Mobile Application to support wider range of Mobile Operation System, Mobile Devices and Tablets, our project feasibility guidelines and, most importantly, our proprietary customizations to Enterprise Mobile Platform with users to assist in determining current operating procedures, clarify program intent, identify problems and suggest modifications to adapt existing programs to new requirements and to increase operating efficiencies. Fair knowledge to automation tools such as ZAP-fiX and Mobile labs to automate test scripts. The myATT mobile experience has 4 different versions - 3 Mobile apps and a Mobile HTML web site. Every release has new features being added for ATT mobile customers. Working in agile methodology demands continuous development and testing in parallel one sprint after another. Interacting with client right from the requirements stage, highlighting about the issues, risks, reporting daily status of project related activities, to delivery of the application. Development Integration Testing DIT July2011-Feb2013 Responsibilities  Smoke testing of dailyweekly builds, Writing test cases, execution and Reporting the statusdefects to the management team both Onshoreoffshore. Environment  Eclipse Galileo, RTC Handling a team of 5 doing smoke testing of our client product UDA. UDA Unified Desktop Application is a PC based software application that is used by many Stock Exchange brokers around the globe who do world-wide trading by making calls, texting  voice mail features. Every release has a new set of features added to the product and the same will be tested offshore by my team before releasing the product for System testing. The team identifies the defect well before in hand and informs the development team about them before the Quality Testing team raises a bug. Ours is like an interface between the Dev and Quality Engineering team working together to report issues and the status first-hand to the management team both offshore  onshore. Interoperability Testing Jan2011-June2011 Responsibilities  Interoperability testing with the third party vendor devices Environment  Audio Codes Media Gateway, Cisco Call Manager, Avaya PBX Testing our clients VOIP product with other vendors in the market like Cisco and Avaya. Also testing the SBC Session Border Controller functionality of the Media Gateway from Audio Codes. Dunkin UDA Simulator May2010-Dec2010 Responsibilities  Development, Testing Environment  PHP, XML, HTML, AJAX, JSON, JQUERY, MYSQL UDA stands for Unified Desktop Application. UDA is basically a client application on the users desktop used to makereceive calls just like a physical telephone. There are two modules here client UDAC and server UDAS. To test the individual UDAC and UDAS, PHP simulator was developed to verify the XML message exchanges between the components. This would aid in unit testing of the individual modules without any dependency on the other module. Dunkin CDI Simulator Feb2010 May2010 Responsibilities  Development, Testing Environment  Linux, C, libCurl During the initial iterations of Dunkin development, there was a need for testing the elements individually with the corresponding supported protocols. With the aim of testing Voice Application Server, the CDI Simulator is an attempt to develop and execute the Integration test cases automatically by simulating Turret  UDA using third party tools. CDI simulator will enable testing of all performance related capacities. The objective of this CDI simulator follows Multiple instances of this automation software shall be invoked to simulate multiple Turrets Ability to respond to messages from AS especially for various voice applications. Ability to update Line Status from Application Server. Ability to easily upgrade simulator to different Dunkin releases. Aid in system performance testing, especially for applicationmedia servers. Provides the performance test report based on collected data e.g. CPU usage, successful calls, number of simultaneous calls, CPS, Line Status updates, call failure etc. IQImpact IPC Professional Services Mar2009  Jan2010 Responsibilities  Development, Testing Environment  Windows, Core Java, Servlet, FLEX, Swing, SQL Server IQImpact is a PC application that works in conjunction with the traders turret. The application provides the trader, the ability to monitor and answer incoming calls as well as place calls on hold, transfer or divert them and retrieve or disconnect the call. The Trader can also make outbound calls from the directory, call list, and a follow up list or by manually typing in a number or a contact name. They can also intercom another trader as well as be aware of other traders presence. The application can also invoke a screen pop within Outlook or any web browser based application. IPC SwitchNetwork configuration and Demo Apr2008  Feb2009 Responsibilities  Configuring, Installing, Testing  Bug Fixing. This job involved configuring the IPCs Alliance switch, TCS server and IQImpact application in the network, test it thoroughly and educating the end customer on the usage. Also involved co-coordinating with the offshore and onshore team during the installation task. Have installedconfigured for 4 different clients, onsite. SIP Registration  Location Server for Release 3.0 Sep2007  Mar2008 Client  CopperCom, Florida, USA LanguageTechnology  C, LDAP Netscape Directory Server Team Size  4 Duration  7 months Project Details Registration server keeps track of the SIP users registered called binding with a database called Location services, provides authentication capabilities to registrations. Registration details are maintained to provide SIP access to only valid users. Whereas the Location Services contains a list of bindings of address-of-record keys to zero or more contact addresses Role Involved in Design, Implementation and Testing. Implementation of COPS Protocol May2007  Aug2007 Role  Involved in Design, Implementation, Unit Testing and Bug Fixing. Client  Tech Mahindra, Internal Project Team Size  4 Duration  4 months Project Details Implementation of Common Open Policy Service COPS Protocol Frame work. This protocol is basically a ClientServer Protocol where the Server PDP analyzes the information, takes the decision, and relays it to the client PEP Implementation of SIP CALEA for Release 3.21 Nov2006  Apr2007 Role  Involved in Design, Implementation, Unit Testing and Bug Fixing. Client  CopperCom, Florida, USA Team Size  4 Duration  6 months Project Details Law enforcement agencies are authorized to tap and record suspect voice conversations. This provision presently available with circuit switched networks needs to be extended to VOIP network, and trace signaling messages and tap into voice sessions that occur on the IP network as well. MGCP CC Call Processing feature for Release 3.2 May2006  Oct2006 Role  Involved in Design, Implementation, Unit Testing and Bug Fixing. Client  CopperCom, Florida, USA Team Size  12 Duration  6 months Project Details MGCP - protocol used to route packet calls over the IP network. The CSX2100 switch to route MGCP-to-MGCP, both to subscribers on the switch. Additionally, the CSX2100 will serve MGCP-to-PSTN, PSTN-to-MGCP, MGCP-to-SIP, and SIP-to-MGCP calls. Regression Testing of all Rel 3.1 Features Feb2006  Apr2006 Role  Involved in Designing of Test Cases and executing them. Client  CopperCom, Florida, USA Team Size  4 Duration  3 months Project Details Testing was an onsite support at the clients place in Boca Raton, Florida, to help them in their testing activities and the FCS First Customer Shipment requirements. BBG-IP Enhancements Feb2005  Feb2006 Role  High Level Design, GUI and Database modification. Client  CopperCom, Florida, USA LanguageTechnology  Java Database  LDAP Netscape Directory Server5.1 Duration  12 months Project Details Call Transfer sub-features  Restricting Call Transfer to certain call types e.g., intra group only, etc. Call Forwarding sub-features  Providing Call Forwarding variations tailoring for BBG usage. Intercom Dialing Expansion  Allowing 3-5 digit extension dialing, where the extension number needs not be aligned with the PSTN Direct Dialed address. Currently, the CSX system supports 4-digit extension dialing, where the 4 digits are the same as the last four digits of the PSTN DDD address. Assume Dial 9 options to escape to PSTN dialing. In this case, special prefixes are assumed for Intercom Dialing. Variable length Inter-Digit Timing  Accommodating slow-dialers. Increased number of lines per BBG system  Extending the BBG capacity to allow up to 1,000 subscriber lines per BBG. DS3 Probe Oct2004  Jan2005 Role  Writing test application for testing the framer driver. Client  Paradyne, USA LanguageTechnology  C, VxWorks Team Size  3 Duration  4 months Project Details The product consists of DS3 Line Interface cards  one for incoming traffic and second for outgoing traffic. The DS3 lines carry ATM cells in which IP and Non IP traffic are embedded. The DS3 Line Interface Unit terminates the DS3. In the receive direction the DS3 header is removed and the Header Error check is performed and the ATM cells are transmitted on the UTOPIA Bus. In the Transmit direction the DS3 framer frames the ATM cells received from the UTOPIA Bus. The T3 driver in the physical layer will ensure that the DS3 line is configured and the Performance monitoring and Alarms handling activities for the DS3 are in place. System Maintenance for Rel3.21 Jan2004Sep2004 Role  Integration Testing, Bug Fixing, Installations and Configurations. Client  CopperCom, Florida, USA Team Size  4 Duration  9 months Project Details Fixing bugs as part of the Releases delivered so far. Its a maintenance activity supporting the customer with their customers issues. Upgrading the switch software with the new releases and configuring the new network elements. Updating database for all features from Release 2.2b July2003  Dec2003 Role  Involved in Design, Implementation and Testing. Client  CopperCom, Florida, USA LanguageTechnology  Java, LDAP Netscape Directory Server Team Size  2 Duration  6 months Project Details Creating new database objects and modifying the existing ones for feature interactions with the LDAP Netscape Directory Server. Also caching the required objects for faster access. WORKSHOPSTRAINING PROGRAMS ATTENDED Technical Flex3.0 Training  Edujini Labs  Oct08 SQL Training  ESG-B,Tech Mahindra  Aug08 XML Training - ESG-B, Tech Mahindra  Feb08 Professional training on Sun Java Programming Java 2 from a Sun Authorized Training center - Oct05 CC - Apr04 Non-Technical Creativity  Innovation  LD, Tech Mahindra  Feb09 Effective Problem Solving - LD, Tech Mahindra  Feb09 Working in a Team  LD, Tech Mahindra  Jan09 US Accent Training  LD, Tech Mahindra  Oct08 Stress Management  LD, Tech Mahindra  Dec07 Excellence in Customer Service  LD, Tech Mahindra  Dec07 Persuasive Presentation  by LD, Tech Mahindra  Nov07 Business communication skills training by Alliance academy, Bangalore - Sep05 PERSONAL Details Email  ncmuralidhargmail.com Mobile  13148149041 Visa Details  H1BI-94 until July2018