Nikith Reddy Email Nikith.k25gmail.com Phone no 510-944-7683 SUMMARY Having 9 years of IT experience in Object Oriented development, testing, and support of Enterprise applications using JavaJ2EE technologies. Extensive experience in core Java and Advanced Java frameworks such as Spring MVC, IoC, AOP, Security, DI, JDBC, Servlets, ORM tools Java Persistence API, Hibernate and MyBatis, along with other java technologies like EJB, Junit, Apache Struts 2, Apache Axis, JFC SWING, AWT, Java 2D, JSTL and log4j. Excellent Proficiency in frontend development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Backbone.js, jQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX and Adobe Flash. Expertise in developing and registering web services using JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, SAAJ, JAX-RS, SOAP, REST, WSDL, UDDI registry along with developing micro services and other middleware. Extensive experience with building cloud based applications. Has vast experience in relational databases like Oracle, MySQL, DB2, MongoDB, NoSQL, SQL and PLSQL. Successfully designed and developed Java Multi-Threading based collector parser and distributor process, when the requirement was to collect, parse and distribute the data coming at a speed of thousand messages per seconds. Worked on MVC - Struts, JSF and spring framework. Explored Spark, Kafka along with other open source projects to create a real time analytics framework. Strong experience in developing and deploying applications through application servers like Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, WebLogic and Jboss along with environments like Node.js. Proficient with J2EE design patterns such as Session Facade, Service Locator, DAO, DTO, Value Object, Front Controller, Factory, Business Object, and Singleton. Experienced with use case diagrams, activity diagrams, sequence diagrams and class diagrams using UML modeling tools like Rational Rose and Visio. Experience with JUnit, ANT, Jasmine and Maven scripts. Defined and created various functional requirement documents and design specification documents after performing requirement analysis for the systems to be developed and worked with bug tracking tools like JIRA Implemented Micro-services using Pivotal Cloud Foundry platform build upon Spring Boot Services Held responsibility for conceptual design, creation, and maintenance of system diagrams for development, testing  production environments, taking part in review of use case, design, code, test and implementation plans while working on all phases of Software Development Life Cycle. Excellent experience in building application with service-oriented-architecture SOA. Skilled at interacting with clients, collection of requirement specifications from the client site, performing requirement analysis and designing. Has strong analytical  creative problem solving abilities along with written and verbal communication, interpersonal and presentation skills. Handled multiple tasks while managing time efficiently, meeting deadlines, coordinating project schedules and releases, meeting with clients and addressing their concerns. Has ability to quickly learn and apply new tools and technologies, translate algorithms and ideas into software applications. Designed back-end solutions for large-scale, on-demand marketing systems. Developed software using Jenkins integration service. Worked with Adobe Flexto create expressive and interactive interfaces. Extensive experience using XML and JSON as data interchange format for asynchronous requests along with good experience working with XML, XSLT, XSD and JAXB. Developed and deployed end-to-end enterprise applications using web technologies and enterprise technologies in client-server environment and distributed environments like 3-tier and N-tier architectures. Worked on testing tools like JUnit for application integration testing and built highly scalable and high performing web applications that support day-to-day operations. EDUCATION Bachelors degree from JNTUH April 2008. TECHNICAL SKILLS PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Client GE-Transportation, Atlanta, GA Sep15 to Till Date Role Sr.JavaJ2EE Developer Description GE Transportation, formerly known as GE Rail, is a division of General Electric. The organization manufactures equipment for the railroad, marine, mining, drilling and energy generation industries. It is headquartered in Chicago, Illinois while their main manufacturing facility is located in Erie, Pennsylvania. Locomotives are assembled at the Erie plant, while engine manufacturing takes place in Grove City, Pennsylvania. Responsibilities Involved in Full stack development based on J2EE specifications and Spring Framework with MVC architecture. Developed using web based technologies such as Hibernate ORM and Web Services RESTSOA micro services. Involved in developing the Angular js MVC framework for the Single Page Application development. Implemented different design patterns such as singleton, Session Façade, Factory, MVC, Business delegate, session facade and DAO design patterns. Web application development for backend system using Node.js with cutting edge HTML5 and CSS3 techniques Used JPA Object Mapping for the backend data persistency. Worked with tracking tool JIRA on Agile Scrum performance estimation and capacity planning work with the project manager and product development teams to create and implement projects. Implemented purchase order entry and reporting modules using Swing JFC to handle client side GUI. Development of front end web pages using JSP2.0, JSON, Angular JS, JS Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and Spring TLD. Expertise in working with the JavaScript, prototype JS and various MVC JavaScript frameworks Node.js. Responsible for designing and coding of User Interfaces using JSF, Pretty faces. Design and Development of High Performance CPD processes by using multithreaded processes which in turn improved the performance by a lot. Worked on cloud based applications implementing a service-oriented-architecture SOA. Tested code using TDD approach to development which combines test-first development where you write a test before you write just enough production code to fulfill that test and refactoring. Used Bootstrap and Angular 2.0 for effective design of Web pages. Developed using Maven build scripts to automate the deployment to various Web Server. Configured Oracle WebLogic Server forms part of Oracle Fusion Middleware portfolio which supports Oracle, and other JDBC-compliant databases. Created User services in Cloud Foundry for connecting database with different life cycles using spring profile. The user interface components are developed using Java AWTswing API. Oracle WebLogic Server Process Edition configuration also includes Business Process Management and Data Mapping functionality. Wrote Karma Jasmine unit, Specflow C integration, and Protractor Jasmine integration tests with every feature. Worked high end on collections and multithreading. Worked with NoSQL database MongoDB and developed custom MongoDB applications specific to clients needs. Worked exclusively on Tomcat for managing performance and security optimization for Web Applications. Used GIT for source control and developed a logging component using Log4J to log messages and errors. Involved in resolving bugs post production and resolved performance issues and participated in code reviews. Worked on relational databases and wrote SQL scripts to manage the database. Developed RESTful API for searching over the patents using SolrJ and SolrCloudServer. Zookeeperis used as the monitoring tool. Used JSP and HTMLCCS to implement the Web Service in Tomcat. Focused on Test Driven Development thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality. Created yaml file to push the application in Pivotal Cloud FoundryPCF Built a new CI pipeline. Testing and deployment automation with Docker, Jenkins, and Ansible. Experienced with Flex framework for building and maintaining web applications. Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixing the problems. Environment Java, JSP, JMS, AJAX, Log4j,Node JS, jQuery, RESTful web services, Swing JFC , JSON, XML, JAX-WS, Apache CXF, AngularJS, Spring, Hibernate, JavaScript, Jasmine HTML, Apache Tomcat, Pivotal Cloud Foundry ,Ansible, CSS, Apache Zookeeper , Spark, Kafka, EJB, ANT, JUnit, Jboss, ECLIPSE LUNA, GIT, and Oracle, MongoDB. Client Charter Communication, Tampa, FL Apr14  Aug15 Role Java Full Stack Developer Description Charter Communications navigated its way to the 2 cable company by making a bigger boat. The cable system operator leaped to the second spot, behind Comcast, with its acquisitions of Time Warner Cable and Bright House Networks for a total of some 70 billion in 2016. The deal expanded the reach of the company, which has taken the name Charter Spectrum. Serving 17 million video subscribers and 19 million broadband customers, it offers a full range of services to residential and business subscribers including cable TV, high-speed Internet, Voice over IP telephone, and entertainment packages. Its Charter Business unit provides Internet access, data networking, phone, and wireless backhaul services to about 500,000 commercial clients. Responsibilities Worked on gathering system requirements for the application, working with the business team to review the requirements in the software requirement specification document, architecture document followed by other phases of Software Development Life Cycle. Designed and developed systems based on J2EE specifications and used Spring Framework with MVC architecture. Used Spring Roo Framework DesignEnterprise Integration patterns and REST architecture compliance for design and development of applications. Involved in the application development using Spring Core, Spring Roo, Spring JEE, Spring Aspects modules and Java web based technologies such as Web Service RESTSOA micro services including micro services implementations and Hibernate ORM. Analyzed the Node.JS server structure in legacy project, then mimicked the REST service by using Java JAX-WS API, and did the corresponding configurations. Used multithreading for writing the collector parser and distributor process, which was getting real time data from API in format of JSON, using multithreading improved the performance by a lot. More over using concurrency package of collections made it thread safe. TestingBDD using Jasmine for JS unit tests and Cucumber for integration tests Involved in developing custom components using JSF, JQuery. Implemented different design patterns such as singleton, Session Façade, Factory, and MVC design patterns such as Business delegate, session façade and DAO design patterns. Used JPA - Object Mapping for the backend data persistency. Worked on Agile Scrum performance estimation and capacity planning work with the project manager and product development teams to create and implement projects. Involved in project migration existing swing application to web integration using Struts 2.0 web frame work based on MVC2 Architecture. Developed on demand, combo and compression server using Node.js. Created Single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services and adding more user experience to make it more dynamic by using AngularJS framework. Worked and configured Mongo DB using spring -JPA and Spring Data to store hierarchical data. Tested the code using TDD approach to development which combines test-first development where you write a test before you write just enough production code to fulfill that test and refactoring. Developed front end web pages using JSP2.0, JSON, jQuery, Angular JS, CSS, JavaScript and SPRING TLD. Developed Maven build scripts to automate the deployment to various Web Servers. Slimming and fine tuning the Enterprise JBoss Application server image Architected and designed Rapid deployment method using Ansible to auto deploy servers as needed. Used JDBC to connect  retrieve data from DB for existing Swing application to connect to Oracle. Implemented a high-performance data processing platform using Apache Kafka, Apache Cassandra, and Apache Spark to analyze stock data. Executed the test steps defined in Test Cases and reporting the bugs in JIRA. Responsible for maintaining and expanding AWS Cloud Services infrastructure using AWS Stack especially worked with database setup and maintenance on AWS EC2. Configured Tomcat server which gave users a single point of access to the applications, services, information and social connections they need. Wrote SQL scripts to manage databases. Environment Java, JSP, Soap Web Services, PL SQL, SDLC, JavaScript, Node.js, Jasmine, Apache Tomcat, Swing, Ansible, Apache Kafka, HTML, Jboss, MongoDB, CSS, Oracle 11g, CVS, Windows XP, Eclipse, SVG, RAD Rational Application Developer, AWS, Toad, , SQL Developer, putty, WinSCP, Rallydev. Client Nationwide Insurance - Columbus, OH Aug13- Mar14 Role Full Stack Java Developer Description Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company is well known for providing insurance and financial services in the United States. One of the Web Application CIQ involves the design and development of a Web based internet application to provide online insurance services. The web application provides functionalities such as Internet Insurance Quote for Customers and Agents. The customer can access complete account information, policy information, and receive instant auto insurance quote and report a claim. Developed from scratch therefore involved in Design and Development of the web application until deployment and production support. Responsibilities Developed new architectural design solutions, functional and technical requirement specifications, use cases, non-functional requirements and provide expertise to technical and functional efforts, teams, and projects with full stack development. Designed new UML diagrams through Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Sequence, components, activity. Identified scenarios and strategies for performance testing and collaborate with test team on execution. Created SOA systems architecture and highlevel design for scalable and highperformance enterprise applications. Established relationships and leaddirect technical development teams for SOAbased design, architecture, development, and testing. Created Architecture enhancements for Distributed J2EE applications and legacy integration with Mainframes applications. Involved in the application development using Spring Core, MVC modules and Java web based technologies such as, Servlets, JSP, Java Web Service RESTSOAP based, WSDL. Worked on Backbone views with declarative event handling which connects it all to the existing API over a RESTful JSON interface. Deployed flow of Execution in the Servlets Environment using JSF and defined Navigation Rules for handling page Navigations using Spring WebFlow. Implemented JSF Converters to handle formatting and Localization and configured the faces-config.xml to create a web application navigation rule. Used Callable objects for implementing multithreading for parallel execution of independent events. Implemented different design patterns such as singleton, business factory and J2EE design patterns such as Business delegate, session façade and DAO design patterns. Developed the HTTP based Web Service Client which calls up the existing web service to get the application related data which comes in XML format. Used AngularJS directives to reduce the usage of redundant code and to create pie-charts, bar-graphs and also familiar in using data-binding and dependency-injection concepts in AngularJS. Used Hibernate - Object Relational Mapping Tool for the backend data persistency. Created a spring container file for configuring Hibernate and to perform Dependency injection among all bean class involved in business logic operation. Fetching the records for SOAP and Restful requests from Oracle DB using SOLR search. Worked with Tomcat as the application server and WebLogic as the webserver. Used No SQL databases like AWS DYNAMO DB and S3 for data persistence. Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the MongoDB for the application on devices. Performed estimation and capacity planning work with the project manager and product development teams to create and implement projects. Used Struts and JSTL tag libraries in the JSP pages. Executed all the web service test scenarios by using SOAP UI. Automated test cases with SOAP UI and Groovy scripting. Developed front end web pages using JSP2.0, JSON, Angular JS, CSS, JavaScript. Developed Maven build scripts to automate the deployment to various Web Servers. Environment UML, OOAD, AgileSCRUM, GOF Patterns, SOA Patterns, EAI Patterns, MongoDB, RSA, MS Visio, Java 7, JSP, Droplets, jQuery, MySQL, Angular JS, JSON, Dynamo Servlets, JDBC, Struts1.1, ATG 9.0, XML, Apache Tomcat, EJB, JMS, Oracle 10g, Linux, Maven, XML, AWS, Web Services SOAP, Rest full, Soap UI, Solr, Splunk, Jenkins Client Agfa Healthcare -Mountain View, CA Nov12- Jul13 Role JavaJ2EE Developer Description Agfa HealthCare supplies hospitals and other care organizations with imaging products and systems, as well as information systems. It comprises of many projects like Enterprise Imaging, Integration Care, Digital Radiology and Education. In Agfa, I work for cardiology department as a RD java developer, where it is a section of Enterprise Imaging project and it captures the images of heart, create the cardiac data of patient and will be send to care teams. As part of project, I implemented the GUI and report view by using the AngularJS framework and Core java concepts with EJB as interface. Responsibilities Developed SVN controls to track and maintain the different version of the project. Actively involved in analysis, detail design, development, bug fixing and enhancement in agile methodology. Involved in daily scrum and sprint planning meetings. By using AngularJS implemented rich functionality by creating advance directives, services, events, CRUD, grid options, and multi - selection. Also added new features and worked performance optimization. Enhanced the features of diagram based graphics by using SVG and AngularJS frame work. Created templates using HTML  CSS and developed components using AngularJS. Performed Unit Testing using Jasmine. Worked on Collections extensively to store, retrieve and manipulate Objects in business logic layer to generate the data into Jasper Reports. Used various core java concepts like Collections and Multithreading for complex data computations and analysis. Expertise in Selenium Automation using Selenium WebDriver, Selenium IDE, Java  Maven. Used iReport tool for Jasper Report configuration. Created documents for Software design and work flow with sequence diagrams, data flow diagrams and entity relationship diagrams. XSLT was used to get reusability with XSL-FO. Handled QC defects, worked with test team and validate the defects. Developed Exception handling framework and used log4J for logging. Worked on HP Quality Center tool for executing the test cases to test the application. Involved in writing test cases for Selenium Automation Tool to test the application. Performed importing of data into application by using Hapi Test Panel. Used JBoss as a server to run the application and deploy WAR files. Extensively use Eclipse, Notepad and Sublime IDEs with SVN Tortoise as Code Repositories. Environment Java, J2EE, EJB, Json, RESTful Services, AngularJS, HTML, XSLT, JavaScript, CSS, Selenium IDE, iReport Tool, HP Quality Center, Eclipse, MySQL and Jboss Server. Client ING Vysya Bank, New Delhi India Aug10  Oct12 Role JavaJ2EE Developer Description ING Vysya Bank was a privately owned Indian multinational bank based in Bangalore, with retail, wholesale, and private banking platforms formed from the 2002 purchase of an equity stake in Vysya Bank by the Dutch ING Group. This merger marked the first between an Indian bank and a foreign bank.3 Prior to this transaction, Vysya Bank had a seven-year-old strategic alliance with erstwhile Belgian bank Banque Bruxelles Lambert, which was also acquired by ING Group in 1998. Responsibilities Involved in analysis, design and development of e-bill payment system as well as account transfer system and developed specs that include Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Activity Diagrams Prepared solution Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSPs. Developed custom tags, JSTL to support custom User Interfaces. Developed the application using Spring Framework that leverages classical Model View Layer MVC architecture. Hands on experience on MS Sql solving complex query. Used Eclipse for writing code for JSP, Servlets. Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate that use the POJOs to represent the persistence database tables. These POJOs are serialized Java Classes that would not have the business processes Implemented Hibernate using the Spring Framework Created the session Factory. Implemented various J2EE Design patterns like Singleton, Service Locator, Business Delegate and Transfer Object. Tested HL7 messages through the deployed routeproject with proper configuration properties files using Putty and winscp. Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as MVC, Business Delegate, Data Access Object, Singleton and Factory. Deployed the applications on BEA WebLogic Application Server. Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules. Used CVS for version control across common source code used by developers. Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions. Used JDBC to invoke Stored Procedures and database connectivity to ORACLE. Refactored the code to migrate from Hibernate2.x version to Hibernate3. x. I.e. moved from xml mapping to annotations and Implemented the Hibernate Filters and Hibernate validators. DAO and the hibernate transactions was implemented using spring framework. Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python. Used AJAX and JavaScript for validations and integrating business server side components on the client side with in the browser. Environment Java, J2EE, JSP, JNDI, Python, Oracle 10g,HL7, DHTML, ANT, Rationale Rose, Eclipse 3.1, Unix, Web logic Application Server, Hibernate 3.0, Spring, LOG4J, CVS. Client Spencers, Bangalore, India Jun08 Jul10 Role Java Developer Description David Spencer Ltd. commonly known as Spencers operated a department store chain in the province of British Columbia, Canada during the late 19th century and the first half of the 20th century.Founded in the city of Victoria in 1873 by David W. Spencer, the first store, located on Government Street, consisted of a dry goods shop operating under the name Spencer and Denny. The store prospered and expanded, and a second store was opened in 1890 in Nanaimo. The Vancouver store, which opened in 1907, was so successful that it soon expanded to occupy almost an entire city block. Other stores later opened in Chilliwack and New Westminster. Responsibilities This project was to develop the e-commerce platform of Spencers in India. Built the home page, implemented the add product functionality along with the variations in the product features. Implemented the checkout functionality and the payment gateway. Created Single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services and adding more user experience to make it more dynamic by using AngularJS framework. Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSPs. Developed custom tags, JSTL to support custom User Interfaces. Analysis of business  system requirements including impact analysis on existing systems. Involved in developing database transactions using JDBC. Involved in using Spring Framework IOC for bean conceptual application and Spring ORM framework for mapping database using Hibernate. Written hibernate-cfg.xml file in Hibernate for mapping objects to the relational database. Used web services to retrieve the custom documents. Developed messaging system using JMS and written message listeners. Developed DAO Data Access Object classes in order to access data from database. Used SVN as Version Control Software. Tested the critical applications functionalities before moving those into production by using various testing methodologies. Co-ordinated with QA for testing, Production releases, Application deployment, integration and conducting walk-through code reviews Environment Spring, HTML5, CSS, Junit, PayPal API, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Eclipse.