Praveen Kumar Bugalaia 60-949-5710 praveen.bugalaia001gmail.com 144 Depot Road, Harvard, MA 01451 Objective Seeking a challenging role to utilize my unique blend of experience in software development and IT Infrastructure, to grow professionally and contribute to the productivity of teams as well as to the growth of an organization. Profile Summary IT Infrastructure Project Manager with 12 years hands on experience in managing complex IT Infrastructure projects. Have worked on projects including VDI infrastructure, Corporate Security projects, Secure Network Architecture design  implementation, Network infrastructure setup switches, routers, firewall, MPLS, VPN etc., Hardware obsolescence, Server footprint optimization, Datacenter consolidation  migration and Enterprise application implementation  migration. Led end-to-end IT Infrastructure implementation for many Client engagements. Also worked on IT Security  governance, risk assessment of suppliersvendors to ensure security benchmarks are in line with organizations defined standards. Experience Summary Wipro Technologies Sr. Project Manager  Team Manager Jun 2016  Feb 2018 Managed enterprise application implementation  migration projects. Also managed Datacenter migration and consolidation projects to optimize IT operations and reduce cost for UK based banking client RBS. Led VPN concentrator projects for upgrading VPN infrastructure for remote connectivity users. Migrated external facing enterprise application to AWS Cloud. Managed team of 15 Project managers including managing their appraisals, career planning, trainings, one X one etc., who were managing IT Infrastructure Projects for RBS. Major Projects Datacenter Migration and closure for Royal Bank of Scotland in UK region Customer  Royal Bank of Scotland, UK Responsibilities Manage migration of existing IT Infrastructure to regional datacenter and close the existing datacenter, End to end Project lifecycle management and delivery including  scope identification, planning, application teams engagement, application infrastructure migration to AWS Cloud, ROM, Risk-Assumption-Issue-Dependency RAID management, stakeholder management, budget approval, procurement, application and its infrastructure migration, project board  stakeholder communication, implementation, resource engagement, collaboration and closure. Technology StackTools used  AWS Cloud, VMware vCenter Converter, vSphere Hypervisor, Windows  Linux Servers, Cisco network devices, Service Now, Planview, MS Project  Visio, Oracle Procurement etc. Enterprise application migration and implementation Customer  Royal Bank of Scotland, UK Responsibilities Internet facing 3 tier enterprise application migration from windows platform to Linux platform, work with application team to do POC in corporate environment, Design approval, get effort estimates from all relevant team, prepare project plan, get budget approval, infrastructure procurement, Risk-Assumption-Issue-Dependency RAID management, technical teamresource engagement, implementation, status update communication, stakeholder management, collaboration and project closure. Technology StackTools used  Windows Server, RHEL, Network devices configuration changes including switches, routers  firewall, F5 Load balancer, SQL Database, Service Now, Planview, Db2, MS Project  Visio, Oracle Procurement tool, etc. Application migration to AWS Cloud Customer  Royal Bank of Scotland, UK Responsibilities Manage end-to-end migration of 3 enterprise applications to AWS Cloud. Scope included work with application team for cloud evaluation through POC and overcome challenges by working with application team, corporate infrastructure team  could support team. Simultaneously work with all relevant team to finalize on infrastructure requirement and get cost estimates, sought PB approval for project budget followed by project planning, schedule, resourcing, implementation, validation, transition and production. Out of 3 applications, 1 was purely a case of Lift and Shift and other two cases were of Replatforming windows to RHEL, which also led to application code changes. Technology StackTools used  AWS Cloud, EC2, S3, VPC, ELB, Windows Server, RHEL, Cloud Security, IAM, SQL Database, Service Now, Planview, Db2, MS Project  Visio, Oracle Procurement tool, etc. General Electric, Bangalore, India Project Manager Oct 2011  Jun 2016 Implementation and management of Enterprise VDI Infrastructure 1000 users and involved in Network designing and implementation of Secure Architecture Network Design with TTM methodologies for quick implementation across Asia Pacific region. Worked with 450 GE suppliers to migrate them to Secure Third party network and secure email over TLS. Have received Management Silver Award for this project for excellent execution. Performance improvement of Enterprise PLM application worlds biggest Enovia PLM implementation to manage performance improvement across global locations through live monitoring using Splunk. Enterprise application migration to AWS cloud including P-V and V-V server migrations. Led security projects including Spunk implementation for enterprise applications security. Managed and completed Network rearchitecutre project of Turkey Technology center, a GE acquisition center. Conducted IT Risk Assessment, ISO 27001ISMS Audits for suppliersvendors and involved in BCPDR planning Major Projects VDI Infrastructure setup for 1000 engineering users Customer  General Electric - Aviation Responsibilities Manage setup of VDI infrastructure for engineering users  I worked with engineering users understand the scope and requirements, benchmark performance, started POC for application compatibility and migration to virtual environment for all engineering tools, worked with designer and architects for solution design, Datacenter space and power requirements, infrastructure procurement, Infrastructure installation, Server configuration, VDI image creation and deployment, license server setup, storage setup, Test rollout, issue fixes, Production rollout, operationalize support, feedback and project closure. Technology StackTools used  VMware vSphere Hypervisor, RHEL, Windows server, SAN Storage, Netapp NAS Storage, Avamar backup solution, License server, SQL  Oracle Database, Cisco network devices, Firewall, Service Now, MS Project  Visio, Procurement tool, MPLS Link, License server etc. Secure Architecture Network Design SAND implementation Customer  General Electric Responsibilities Responsible for SAND project implementation for engineering sites in Asia Pacific region. It included about 15k users across 7 different locations in India, China, Australia, UAE  Singapore. GEs network is a legacy 3.x.x.x network that had been in existence for a long time and to revamp the security SAND project was undertaken across GE to upgrade the network infrastructure of GE. I led the SAND project implementation for 15k users in phase wise approach and completed the project in 6 months duration. Technology StackTools used  Network devices configuration changes including switches, routers  firewall, F5 Load balancer, DNS, DHCP, Service Now, MS Project  Visio, Procurement tool, etc. Migrate 450 GE Suppliers to secure third party network and secure email over TLS Customer  General Electric - Aviation Responsibilities Responsible for migrating 450 GE suppliers to secure third party network to align with secure network for GE. A dedicated network hub was created in different regions to manage all third party connections securely. Prior to this all third party connection were ending in adhoc manner and team didnt have clear visibility and control over that. This project included migration of third party connections as per their region hub and implement secure email connection between GE and respective suppliers. This project was completed in eight months with budget of about 650k. Technology StackTools used  Network devices configuration changes including routers  firewall, VPN concentrator, Network access server, TLS Gateway encryptionF5, Service Now, MS Project  Visio etc. SIEM tool implementationconfiguration for enterprise application Customer  General Electric - Power Responsibilities Responsible for Splunk server installationconfiguration for Security Information and Event Management SIEM of enterprise application. This projects implementation was required to comply with export controlled data security requirement through logging and monitoring the individual user activity. This included server procurement and installation of Splunk server license and storage configuration for optimum storage for keeping archive logs for last two years for reporting and monitoring. I also worked with application team to understand the application available logs and enable others as required and then configuration changes on application server for log transfer automation. Technology StackTools used  RHEL Server, Splunk Server license, Apache web server, Tomcat Application Server, Oracle Database, NAS Storage, Firewall configuration changes, F5 Load balancer, Service Now, MS Project  Visio, Procurement tool, etc. Network Re-architecture of Turkey Technology Customer  General Electric - Aviation Responsibilities Responsible for Turkey Technology center network re-architecture. This was a GE acquisition and the center 3000 users has to be brought to GE standards for integration to GE network. I started pulling the team together and collected the information about the existing network infrastructure and then assessed the existing setup with Architects and devised the scope that included new devices procurement and usage of existing infrastructure wherever possible. Prepared the design, got budget approval and progressed with planning, procurement and implementation. This project was achieved with budget of 1.3M. Technology StackTools used  Cisco  Juniper Network devices including Switches, routers, firewall, VPN Concentrator etc., WLAN setup, MPLS Network, Racking and stacking, DNS, DHCP, Service Now, MS Project  Visio, Procurement tool, etc. Infosys Technologies Ltd., Gurgaon, India Technology Transition Leader  IT Risk Manager Jul 2010  Oct 2011 Led a team of six and managed end-to-end IT Infrastructure implementation for all new clients of Infosys. Scope included network setup MPLSVPN, implementation of firewalls - IDSIPS, DLP solutions, active directory setup, domain creation, desktop deployment, ODC setup, IVR solution, server room setup, access control environment and stabilization of IT Operations. Implemented server hardening as per corporate policies, monitored user compliance w.r.t network and internet security policies, analyzed and tested network to discover weaknesses and closed gaps Conducted IT risk assessment, ISO 27001ISMS, SAS70  PCI DSS audits for Infosys clients Major Projects IT Infrastructure setup for 16 new client engagements Customer  EW Scripps, McClatchy, Charming shoppes Inc., Suncorp, Aviva, Kellogg Company, JJ etc. Responsibilities I was responsible for setting up network connectivity between all client offices and Infosys office along with DR site. It included kickoff of meeting with Clients IT team to understand the IT Infrastructure setup requirements to meet the scope of work outsources to Infosys. This involved network setup, offshore delivery center setup including Domain controller, Windows server for Patching, Antivirus Server, group policy setup, User account management, Desktop setup etc. and run the show until the operation is stabilized. Post which handover to the operations team and move with next setup or so. I was also managing six-member team. Technology StackTools used  Windows server, Antivirus Server, Windows Patch server, SAN Storage, Cisco network devices, PixCisco Firewall, IDSIPS devices, MPLSVPNIPSec Network, Service Now, remedy etc. Tata Consultancy Services Ltd., India Team Leader, Bangalore, India Deputed on 6-month assignment at London, UK May 2008  Jul 2010 Managed IT Infrastructure team, responsible for delivering server and desktop solutions and managing IT Operation to UK based Energy utilities company Customer  Centrica Delivered IT service to customers as per SLA and acted as an escalation point for business Fast-track urgent requests Also managed active directory managementadministration, anti-virus server management, WindowsLinux server  patch management, group policy creation  enforcement Team Member, Bangalore, India Dec 2005  Apr 2008 Worked on Active Directory, Exchange server, SCCM, Remote Desktop, Desktop deployments, Server Virtualization VDI Citrix for UK based Insurance company Customer  Aviva Insurance company Server Administration  InstallingConfiguring different flavours of Windows servers, managing Active Directory service, monitoring servers, installing printers, installing web based applications, Patch Management, Antivirus server management, PCs troubleshooting and fixing OS and applications issues. VMware Administration - Installing, Configuring  Trouble shooting of VMware ESXi Server, managing more than 50 ESXi servers and around 500 VMs, Performance monitoring VMS  ESXi Servers using virtual center, Creating, Managing Virtual Machines using templates Network Design  Implementation  Network infrastructure design, VLAN Management  creation, adding ports to VLAN etc., WAN link optimizationsolution design based on business requirements. Technical Skills Datacenter consolidationmigrationoptimization  Identification of potential HW candidates for virtualization, server candidates for consolidation and cloud migration Enterprise Network Design  Network infrastructure design, WAN link optimization, solution design based on business requirements MPLS, VPN etc. and engage network service provider to establish connectivity. Server Administration  Installation and configuration of Windows servers, active directory service management, patch management  antivirus server management. VMware Administration - Installation, configuration, management, creation and trouble shooting of VMs IT Service delivery and management, Project Management, Change Management, Problem Management, IT Procurement, Network Architecture, Infrastructure Architecture  Virtualization Education  Certifications Bachelor of Engineering Information Technology Jun 2001  May 2005 Saurashtra University, Gujarat, India Splunk Certified User Cisco Certified Network Associate CCNA Six Sigma Green Belt Certification PMI PMP Certified Information Technology Infrastructure Library ITIL V2  V3 Foundation by EXIN Information Technology Infrastructure Library ITIL  Intermediate  Service Operations