Rao raojavadev7gmail.com 201-701-3757 OBJECTIVE Had 8 years of IT experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle SDLC such as Planning, Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance of Web Based, Client-Server, Dev-ops tools, Software Configuration and BuildRelease Management and N-tier Architectures in domains like Insurance, Healthcare and Finance. I had a wide knowledge and proven experience in web development and maintenance. I am self-starter, quick learner and capable of working independently to achieve milestones and deadlines. I am adept at prioritizing, tracking and completing tasks to accomplish project goals. PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY Experience in providing technical solutions for business applications in development, designing, testing, building frameworks and implementing web-based Client-Server and Middleware multi-tier distributed environments using Java, J2EE. Experience in implementation of Web-based and Stand alone applications using concepts of Object Oriented Design OOD, Object Oriented Analysis OOA,Object Oriented Programming OOP. Hands on experience with various application design patterns like MVC, MVVC, MVP and GWT. Designed and developed software applications using Java, Multithreading, Servlet, AngularJS, Bootstrap 3, JSP, JSTL, HTML, JavaScript, Ext JS, Groovy, Grails, EJB, JMS, XML, XSL, JSF, Ajax, JQuery, Adobe Flex 3, GWT, ADF etc. Used Angular 2, TypeScript, Webpack, ES6 Features to develop the application. Turn mockups and design into pages complete with HTMLHTML5, CSSCSS3, JavaScript and Angular2. Experience with Java 1.8 features such as Lambda Expressions for making anonymous inline function calls by using functional Interfaces which makes code readable and concise. Worked with Java 1.8 Streams API and parallel Streams API for enabling parallel processing of collections in distributed environment. Hands on Experience in developing and designing the Micro Services using REST framework and Spring Boot. Hands on Experience in designing and implementing AWS Solutions using EC2, S3, EBS, Elastic Load balancer ELB, VPC, Lambda. Utilized AWS EC2 instances for application installation and preferred S3 buckets for the storage. Expertise in developing the Web-Based application by implementation of frameworks like Struts Struts, Tag Libraries and Struts custom validation rules, Tiles, Spring Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Data, Spring Batch, AJAX frameworks Rich Faces, My Faces and ORM frameworks like Hibernate and Mybatis. Expertise in implementing Web Services, related technologies  frame works WSDL, SOAP, REST, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC, AXIS and Jersey, SOAP UI and producing client utilizing Eclipse for Web Services consumption. Diverse experience utilizing tools in N-tier and Micro services architecture applications using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud config, Netflix OSS componentsEureka, Zuul, Hystrix, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, AWS, Rabbitmq, Kafka, Zookeeper, Cassandra, MySQL, Restful Web Services. Hands on Experience in core java concepts like Collection Framework, Multi-threading, Generics, Annotations, Serialization, Thread pools, JavaBeans, Externalization Experienced in XML technologies like DTD, XSD, XSLT and parses like DOM, SAX and JAXB. Hands on Experience at writing composite SQL queries, procedures, Triggers and stored procedures in various databases such as MySQL, Oracle and Cassandra. Made the integration of data in several applications in favor JSON documents with dynamic schemas using MongoDB NoSQL database. Worked on Node.js and MongoDB data store procedures to satisfy various business requirements of the application. Experienced in Middleware persistence framework like HibernateJPA for mapping Java classes with database and utilizing Hibernate Query Language HQL. Installation and configuration of Active MQ, Open MQ, IBM MQ Series and caching software like Oracle Coherence, Redis, Memcached and IBM ExtremeScale. Experienced in managing the security part of the application using technologies related to SSO. Single sign-on SSO and multi-factor authentication with this property a user logs in with a single ID and password to gain access to a connected system or systems without using different usernames or passwords, or in some configurations seamlessly sign on at each system. Involved in Authorization, Authentications  SSO using LDAP  AD. Experience in configuring and deploying the applications on application servers like WebSphere, Weblogic, JBoss and Glassfish. Expertise in performing the unit testing using JUnit, integration and deploying the applications using tools such as ANT and Maven, debugging through log4j. Experienced in developing Automation Scripts using Selenium Web-driver Experienced in JMS over messaging to exchange the information in more reliable and asynchronous way in enterprise Applications. Used Apache Active MQ and Apache Camel providers. Actively involved in the DevOps streamlining process through Jenkins CI and CD Release Automation. Strong working experience in Cloud technologies like Pivotal Cloud Foundry PCF, spring boot, Spring Cloud Config Server SCCS, Jersey in spring boot, Service Registry Eureka on new development project as well as migration to traditional project on Cloud. Experience in implementing security models OAUTH2 and SAML for authenticationauthorization using Spring Security and IAM Cloud Security. Experience in deploying the Application into Docker container and made easily accessible at runtime using Cloud Foundry and other cloud services like AWS, Netflix Eureka. Strong technical, administration, mentoring knowledge in Apache Spark and Datastax Cassandra. Experienced in using streaming software like Apache Storm, Kafka, Spark, RabbitMQ and integrating with APIs Restful with APIGEE and Layer7 Experienced in designing and developing asynchronous event based framework based on messaging infrastructure to process huge volume of messages using Solace queues, Apache Kafka, Storm and Zookeeper. Knowledge and experience in job work-flow scheduling and monitoring tools like Oozie and Zookeeper. Knowledge in testing web application vulnerabilities, OWASP is used as a guide in this review and testing process. Experienced in using JSON as the data exchange format and Swagger to provide the contracts between UI and middleware. Experience in writing shell scripting for deployment process and expertise in sharing files between Linux boxes and windows using the WinSCP, a secure FTP, SCP client for Microsoft Windows Experience in developing unit testing frameworks using JUnit, JMeter, DB Unit, Mockito and Groovy Spock based on test first or test driven methodology. Experienced in designing and implementing sw business rules using DROOLS framework. Experience in handling HP Fortify issues, Sonar, PMD. Extensive experience with Java complaint IDEs like IBM RAD , IBM WSAD, Eclipse, Spring STS and Intellij IDEA. Worked on production 0 for the client and business user application. Also supported critical business applications as L2 production support engineer. TECHNICAL SKILLS PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Client Express Scripts Jan17-Till date Location Franklin lakes, NJ Role Full Stack Developer Description The Health Evaluation System is developed for the doctors who can use the system and give the details to the patients by the printout. This system will have all the information regarding the health related issues. Using this system doctor will get all the types of medicines for any type of health issues. The system will store all the information regarding health issues and their medications for different ages. Roles  Responsibilities Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle SDLC and used agile methodology SCRUM for developing application. Upgraded existing UI with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Ext Js and Bootstrap with Angular interaction. Used Angular 2.0 for Router to build single page applications for navigation through the different status and multiple modals. Used Angular 2.0 forms like Template Driven forms and Modern Driven Reactive forms to perform form validations both on server and client side. Used JSP, JQuery, AJAX and JSON for implementing presentation layer as well as MAVEN and Node Js server for deploying EAR files. Used Java 1.8 features like stream API and Lambda expressions. Maintained Interface compatibility and concurrency in the project using Java 1.8 new features like default, static methods and Concurrency API. Developed various helper classes needed following Core Java multi-threaded programming and Collection classes. Involved in migrating monolithic application in Microservice Architecture and Developed Micro-services using Pivotal Cloud Foundry platform build upon Spring Boot Services. Designed and developed Micro Services business components using Spring Boot. Worked on the REST Web Services and used Spring Framework and developed the Spring Features like Spring Core, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Data Access, and spring web test, Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Security, and Spring Integration.. Developed messaging module using Spring JMS, Apache Camel and Kafka. Used Spring AOP Module to implement logging in the application to know the application status. Developed an API to write XML documents from a database. Utilized XML and XSL Transformation for dynamic web-content and database connectivity. Designed and developed third-party payment services, REST Web Services to offer users convenient payment methods using various APIs provided by various third-party payment processors based on OAuth 2.0 protocol. Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations and Transaction Management. Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control IOC and Hibernate. Involved in testing the applicable code using JUnit.. Responsible for creation and execution of automation test scripts using Selenium, Webdriver. Written SQL Queries and stored procedures to interact with OracleDB. Configuring and maintaining the database PLSQL. Worked with NoSQL Cassandra to store, retrieve, and update and manage all the details for Ethernet provisioning and customer order tracking. Developed custom Apache Spark batch job programs in Scala to create recommendations based on customer data. Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues in the application. Configured and customized logs using Log4J. Configured CICD pipeline by setting up Build, test,  deploy automation Jobs in Jenkins using Conditional Build steps pipeline by integrating Jenkins, Maven and Artifactory. Installed, configured SonarQube and continuously integrated the issues. Employed fail safe and circuit breaker patterns for the first time in Clients email applications using Hystrix and Hystrix Dashboard in Spring Boot Micro Service Applications. Implemented Single Sign On SSO to define the user roles and access Deployed the Application into Docker container and made easily accessible at runtime using Cloud Foundry and other cloud services like AWS, Netflix Eureka. Responsible for creating an instance on Amazon EC2 AWS and deployed the application on it and responsible for maintaining and expanding our AWS infrastructure using AWS EC2EBS. Utilized Amazon Web Services AWS EC2 to deploy Docker containers. Responsible to maintain the networking from AWS cloud back to On-Primary connectivity and no direct internet access from AWS cloud VPC to the rest of the world Internet. Installing and configuring the applications like docker tool and kubernetes for the orchestration purpose. Using Chef deployed and configured Elastic search for log analytics, full text search, application monitoring in integration with AWS Lambda and CloudWatch. Created dynamic routingload balancing capability enabling large application scaling for high availability. Environment AgileSCRUM, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJs, AWS, Micro Services, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Spring, Oracle, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Spring Security, JSON, XML, GIT, JUnit, Maven, JMS, Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, Rest Restful, JAX-RS, Log4J, SOA, JIRA, Jenkins. Client BCBS Sep15  Dec16 Location Dallas, TX Role Full Stack Java Developer Description Blue Cross and Blue Shield is an insurance company owned by its policyholders. This application was created to help individuals and families easily shop for and buy health insurance. BCBS offers a variety of insurance plans, as well as tools to help to help you choose the plan thats right for you. Roles Responsibilities Involved in Daily Scrum Agile meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint. Extensive experience on DevOps essential skills like continuous integration, continuous deployment, continuous delivery, supporting Build Pipelines Release management and cloud computing. Involved in the front end using JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and AJAX. Used AngularJs to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Application. Involved in development of Agent Verification System using Spring MVC framework. Used Spring AOP for logging, auditing and transaction management to distinguish business logic from the cross-cutting concerns. Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, spring Batch and handled the security using Spring Security. Worked on Single Sign On application using LDAP directory service for secure authentication and assigning roles based on the login id. Implemented Web-Services to integrate between different applications components using Restful Web Services by using Jersey. Involved in identifying and implementation of different J2EE design patterns like Service Locator, Business Delegate, and DAO. Implemented business logic using Array list, Map and Sets of Collections API. Developed Web Services component using XML, WSDL, and SOAP with DOM parser to transfer and transform data between applications. Used apache common digester to parse data from XML files and populate data into java beans. Created data model and generated Hibernate mappings and domain objects using Hibernate tools. Interfaced with the MySQL back-end database by integrating spring with Hibernate. Extensively used hibernate named queries, criteria queries, Hibernate Query Language HQL and Optimistic Locking and Caching to process the data from the database. Design and Coding the core framework using J2EE, Spring Boot, Jersey, Cloud technologies SCCS, Eureka, encryption, security groups on Pivotal Cloud Foundry PCF and the services with the integration points using J2EE, spring and Informatica Web Services JAX RPCJAX WS Deployed and Monitored Micro Services using Pivotal Cloud Foundry, also Managed Domains and Routes with the Cloud Foundry. Performed deployment of applications on IBM WebSphere Application Server. Involved in implementing validations, exception handling. Worked with XML, XSLT for building up  transforming the xml files. Used IBM MQ and IBM Broker for transferring the data across multiple applications. Used IBM MQ as Queuing mechanism to send messages to clients and interact with other systems. Involved in testing the applicable code using JUnit. Used ClearCase for version control and ClearQuest for bug tracking and Used Apache ANT script for building the application with the build.xml. Used logging techniques provided by Log4j tool for efficient logging and debugging. Developed the application using Eclipse IDE and used its features for editing, debugging, compiling, formatting, and build automation. EnvironmentHTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJs, DOJO, AJAX, JSP, Agile, Hibernate, Spring, Spring MVC, Servlets, REST, JAX-WS, Log4j, PLSQL, Web Services, Weblogic Application Server, Oracle, JUnit, Log4j, JIRA, SVN. Client Flag Star Bank Oct14 Aug15 Location Troy, Michigan Role Java Developer Description Flagstar Bank is a Michigan based financial organization that offers services such as commercial and personal banking, online banking services, investment and loans. This application is developed to enhance online banking facility to the customer. Banking application has various modules for account maintenance, and email notification modules Roles Responsibilities Involved in SDLC requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing of application developed using agile methodology. Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML, Ajax and Java script. JVM tuning experience by changing to heap sizes according to the requirement. Experience in presentation layer for front-end of the application by using NodeJS boot strap programming and HTML pages. Used Spring MVC and Dependency Injection for handling presentation and business logic. To maintain loose coupling between layers published the business layer as services and injected the necessary dependent components using Spring IOC and published cross cutting concerns like Logging, User Interface exceptions, Transactions using Spring AOP. Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate. Used Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of the application. Extensively used JSON to parse the data from server side to satisfy the business requirement. Used Apache Axis Service Engine for creating and deploying Web Service clients using SOAP, WSDL. Used Web Services for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting useful plans from different module. Implemented persistence framework using Hibernate handled Transaction Management using the provided data source. Responsible for designing Hibernate mapping files based on business logic and Object relationships. Integrated spring and hibernate together and worked on developing backend components and services using Hibernate and spring. Extensively used HQL and SQL for querying databases. Developed Message Driven Bean for asynchronous sending Messages using JMS. Used Spring JMS module for lookup for the queues and MDBs for the listeners Established Database Connectivity using JDBC, Hibernate OR mapping with Spring ORM for Oracle. Packaged and deployed the application in JBoss. Used Gradle tools for building and deploying the Web applications. Analysis and Bug fixing of the production problems and defects along with enhancements Implemented JUNIT test cases for unit testing and Suites for end to end testing. Used JIRA for tracking the Project Stories in Agile Methodology. Used Tortoise SVN to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts. Environment HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AngularJs, JSON, XML, AJAX, JQuery, Struts, Hibernate, Spring MVC, SOAP,WSDL, HQL, SQL, JBoss, Oracle, JMS, JNDI, Maven, RMI, IntelliJ, UML, JIRA, JUNIT, Tortoise SVN, LINUX. Client All Star Nov13  Oct14 Location Chicago, IL Role JAVA Developer Description All Star Insurance is a leading insurance company owned by its policyholders. An application is created to help individuals and families easily shop for, and buy health insurance which is used to handle insurance claims. ePAS is a secure, web-based insurance policy. Administration system allows authorized agents to quote and submit new policy applications, view policy statuses and submit policy endorsements. The system will guide the agent through the policy application and endorsement. Processes and automatically apply underwriting rules when submitting transactions. Roles Responsibilities Involved in all phases of the Software development life cycle SDLC using Agile Methodology. Developed User Interface using JSP, JSTL, HTML, CSS, Java Script, jQuery. Used various jQuery UI controls and corresponding Event handlers. To maintain loose coupling between layers published the business layer as services and injected necessary dependent components using Spring IOC and published cross cutting concerns like Logging, User Interface exceptions, Transactions using Spring AOP. Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate. Used Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of the application. Implemented persistence framework using Hibernate and Handled Transaction Management using the provided data source. Responsible for designing Hibernate mapping files based on business logic and Object relationships. Integrated Spring and Hibernate together and worked on developing backend components and services using Hibernate and spring. Established Database Connectivity using JDBC, Hibernate OR mapping with Spring ORM for DB2. Worked on Hibernate in Data Access Layer for mapping the java objects to relational database and SQL queries to fetch the data, insert and update the data from the database. Implemented SOA architecture with Web Services using SOAP, WSDL and XML using Apache CXF framework and worked on parsing the XML files using DOMSAX parsers. Extensively used JSON to parse the data from server side to satisfy the business requirement. Created Tables, Triggers, PLSQL Stored Procedures, SQL queries, Joins and views for IBM DB2. Implemented SOAP based Web Services and used Soap UI for testing. Used Spring JMS module for lookup for the queues and MDBs for the listeners. Involved in Unit Testing of various modules by generating the Test Cases. Performed deployment of applications on WebSphere. Written LINUX shell scripts to identify user login information. Involved in day to day handling of JIRA issues production issues at time that involved data inconsistencies that required to be solved in very less time. Involved in Bug fixing of various modules that were raised by the testing teams in the application during the Integration testing phase. Environment Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSP, JSTL, Spring, Hibernate, XML, XSD, SOAP UI, SOAP, WSDL, Log4j, JUnit, IBM DB2, WebSphere, SVN, Eclipse IDE, JIRA, Agile Methodology, Linux, Rational Rose and UML Client Soft Pro Systems Ltd, Hyderabad, India June11  July13 Role Java Developer Project B2B solutions Description This project is mainly an Intranet application meant for employees in the organization. They are Intranet mailing System, Chatting, File Transfer and Remote Login. This project is based on the client server methodology Roles Responsibilities Involved in Requirement Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of the risk workflow system. Involved in the implementation of design using vital phases of the Software development life cycle SDLC that includes Development, Testing, Implementation and Maintenance Support in WATER FALL methodology. Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using JSP, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript and JQuery. Involved in component development using J2EE principles and used design patterns such as Singleton, Factory and Data Access Object DAO in the implementation of the application. Responsible for designing, coding and developed the application in J2EE using Struts MVC. Implemented Struts framework Action  Controller classes for dispatching request to appropriate classes. Used simple Struts Validation for validation of user input as per the business logic and initial data loading. Achieved synchronization of multiple threads through Multithreading and Exception Handling. Extensively used JSON to parse the data from server side to satisfy the business requirement. Developed Struts Action Forms, Action classes and performed action mapping using Struts. Developed RESTful and SOAP based Web Services to consume and produce data in XML and JSON. And also was involved in several custom validations Integration if Mybatis has reduced to create a JDBC connection and has eased the way of writing code. Written SQL queries, PLSQL store procedures and Triggers to fetch and store data from the database. Used Log4J for application logging and notification tracing mechanisms. Developed the ANT scripts for preparing WAR files used to deploy J2EE components and deployment of the application was on Jetty. Prepared JUnit test cases and executed the test cases using JUnit. Involved in bug fixing during the System testing, Joint System testing and User acceptance testing. Used GIT to check-in and check-out and co-ordinate among team members for Version Controlling. Environment Java, HTML, CSS, AJAX, jQuery, JavaScript, Struts, Web Services, SOAP, RESTful, JSON, XML, JDBC, SQL, MySQL, ANT, Eclipse, JIRA, GIT, Jetty and UNIX. Client Info Tech May09  June11 Location Hyderabad, India Role Jr. JAVA Developer Description This is an Intranet application for shopping online within the community. The member of the community sitting at his home or office can shop different items belonging to different categories like Stationary, Electronic Goods, Apparel, Furniture, Vehicles, Home need appliances etc. in the store belonging to that community. The mode of payment is through their membership Card. An Updated record is delivered every month to the concerned member so those dues may be deducted from his membership account. Adequate security features were incorporated into the Project. Another record maintains stock update. Roles Responsibilities Involved in understanding and analyzing the requirements of the project. Followed Waterfall Methodology to implement the project. Used Java JDK features to implement the functionalities. Designed and developed the User Interface using HTML, JavaScript, AJAX and CSS. Implemented Struts MVC design pattern and front controller pattern and used for back-end. Developed Action Class components for performing business process execution and involved in configuration of struts configuration specific xml file. Created and handled Custom-Exceptions that are related to business operations. Created child Threads to improve the performance by running some independent tasks at background. Developed Server-Side components for the business services for creating Items, BOM, Sourcing Rules, and substitute. Used Log4j for logging purposes during the development of the application. Used JDBC to interact with the underlying MySQL Database. Extensively worked on SQL for writing complex queries in the business logic layer. Deployed Applications on Apache Tomcat Server and used CVS as the version control manager. Environment Java, JDBC, JDK, Servlets, Struts, JSP, Hibernate, Java Mail API, AJAX, HTML, XML, ANT, Log4J, CVS, RAD, Putty, MySQL, Mantis, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse IDE, Waterfall Methodology.