Ravi Reddy SR. JAVAJ2EE DEVELOPER 402 500-0041 rvk.reddy240gmail.com SUMMARY OF EXPERIENCE 9 years of professional experience in all facets of Software Development Life Cycle  like requirement analysis, architecture design, development, testing and implementation of Enterprise Applications using, Java J2EE technologies in e-Commerce, Finance, Insurance, Retail, Healthcare, Hospitality, and Telecommunication domain. Proficient in Design and development of distributed Enterprise and Web applications using Java, J2EE JSPServlets, EJB, JMS, JDBC, Collections, Struts, JSF, Hibernate, Spring Frameworks, XML SAX, DOM, XSD, XSLXSLT, AjaxJavaScript, HTML, PHP, Perl, CSS, ANT and Web Services SOAP, WSDL, UDDI. Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis and Design OOAD, Model View Controller MVC, Service Oriented Architecture SOA, Inversion of Control IOC, Dependency Injection DI, Annotation-Driven Programming. Hand on experience in XML technologies like XSLXSLT, SAX, DOM, X Path, SOAP, WSDL, DTD, XSD, XMI, SOA, JAXB, JAXP, and Apache Axis. Expertise in implementing J2EE Design Patterns like Singleton, Front Controller, Factory Pattern, Business Delegate, Service Locater, Session Facade, Data Transfer Objects DTO, and Data Access Objects DAO. Experience in designing Use Cases, Class diagrams, Sequence and Collaboration diagrams for threen-tiered object-oriented system architectures using Unified Modeling Language UML tools like Rational Rose. Working knowledge of Agile Scrum, Waterfall, and Rational Unified Process RUP methodologies. Excellent skills in debugging and bug-tracing. Hands on Experience with Web Sphere MQ. Build ETL processes utilizing SSIS and DTS, including FTP data from remote location, transform it, mart it to data warehouse and provide proper error handling and alerting. Installed, Configured Cognos8.410 and Talend ETL on single and multi-server environments. Experience in Ant and Maven build tools for project development and deployment. Experience in configuration, Integration and Development with AWS EC2, S3, and Cloud Front. Experience in writing and executing unit test cases using J Unit Testing Framework. Deployed applications using various ApplicationWebservers like IBM Web Sphere Application Server, JBoss, BEA Web Logic and Apache Tomcat. Proficiency in NoSQL databases Cassandra and relational data modeling, object-relational integration ORM, physical designtuning. Experience in Preparation and execution of Test Cases. Extensively worked with Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, Sybase, and DB2relational database management systems RDBMS. Strong knowledge in designing and coding stored procedures, Triggers and Functions using PLSQL and also fine-tuning the SQL queries. Experience in using configuration management build management tools like CVS, Mercurial, Subversion SVN and Rational Clear Case. Extensively worked on Windows, UNIX, AIX, Solaris and Red Hat Linux operating systems. Performed lead, supportive and sharing roles with strong communicative and interpersonal skills in team-tasks. TECHNICAL SKILLS PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Description Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated is a leader in the global life reinsurance industry .This project aims at Risk and Insurance management and deals with life insurance policies new policy applications, Renewal of policies, endorsement of policies, interim and flat cancellations are handled by this application. Responsibilities Discussions with clients based on the System requirement document to cover the functionality, technical issues and scope of work. Have used Service Locator, Façade, Singleton, and Factory Design patterns and have developed UML Diagrams using Visio. User interface design using HTML, JQUERY, JSP, CSS, JavaScript, Angular.js, Dependency Injection and Node.js. Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC and worked on other modules like IOC AND AOP. Configured the URL mappings and bean classes using spring app-servlet.xml. Implemented AJAX using third party tools as richfaces-api-3.1.1 to generated User Friendly Grids and tables. Designed and implemented GUI screens for creating, modifying, deleting and viewing point of sale transactions using Java, Swing, and AWT components. Used Apache Maven for project management and building the application. Used PLSQL and SQLLoader to create ETL packages for flat file loading and error capturing into log tables. Built and Configured Servers in AWS Cloud Environment. Set up Jenkins server and build jobs to provide continuous automated builds based on polling the Git. Installed, configured, and administration of NoSQL database clusters in AWS Virtual Private Cloud Network. Migrated the Entire traditional EC2 Classic environment to Private network in AWS Cloud. This included a 3 tier Web Application. Integrated custom Cloud Portal to AWS APIs for Automated Network. Developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS and JQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end RESTful Server, then display the well-organized result in web pages by writing AngularJS. Developed the WSDLXSD using top-down approach and XML Namespaces. Generated the stubs using JAXB. Involved in the deployment of Web-Service End-Points using CXF. Automated the creation of the Javadoc documentation for the MCCCF application using Jenkins and Maven. Established the data environment for the cloud application and their migration. Developed the web-services  analysis of SOAP envelope using SOAP UI. Implemented the Message Driven Bean for Instruction enrichment and pre-processing. MDB is deployed on WebSphere server and dispatches the request to Stateless Session Bean EJB. Developed Message Driven Beans MDB and extensively used the JMS API. Developed SOAP based XML web services. Developing automated process for builds and deployments Jenkins, Ant, Maven, Sonatype Nexus, Shell Script, Perl, Java. Setup MQIPT on AIX and windows server using support packs. Created architecture stack blueprint for data access with NoSQL data base Cassandra. Installed, configured, and administration of NoSQL database clusters in AWS Virtual Private Cloud Network. Used SAX XML API to parse the XML and populate the values for a bean. Used Jasper to generate rich content reports. Developed XML applications using XSLT transformations. SQL development using Stored Procedures, Views and Queries with Oracle. Involved in project documentation using Javadoc during development phase. Involved in writing PLSQL stored procedures for Oracle 10g database. Participated in the code reviews for various initiatives, Performed Static Code Analysis to follow the Best Practices for Performance and Security using apache Shiro. Environment JavaJ2EE 1.7,Servlets, JSP, JSTL, HTML, JQuery, Angular.js, cloud migration, AJAX, XML 1.0, XSD 1.1, SPRING 3.0, Spring MVC, Spring Securities, Spring JPA, MQ Series, Spring JMS, EJB, Restful web Services, SOAP 1.2, WSDL, Hibernate, Tomcat 7.0, WebSphere 6.0, Eclipse Mars 4.5, Maven 3.3, Jenkins, JIRA, AWSEC2, S3, Cloud Front, Oracle 10g, Junit, Log4j, mockito. Description Cox Communications is an American privately owned subsidiary of Cox Enterprises providing digital cable television, telecommunications and Home Automation service. The project aim to manage the ordering  disconnecting, invoice processing  billing, and reporting of telecom services. Currently the strategy has been implemented to include Telecom Service Center, Telecom Invoicing Management System TIMS, and Telecom Reports Web Reporting. Companys Services Telecom Service Center provides order entry, tracking and delivery of telecommunication services. Responsibilities Designed and developed the product using JavaJ2EE technologies in agile methodology. Worked closely with Director, Architect, Business Analyst, Clients, Development and Testing team of the company in developing the application as per client needs. Developed the FrontendBackend application using Java, JSP. Developed page handlers for the JSP pages for customization. Built spring based Java and Scala microservices to support enterprise web application. Used Session beans to implement Session facade. Worked on AJAX, DOM and CSS on frontend for asynchronous client services and component validation part. Configured and deployed web application in JBoss Application Server using Maven. Extensively worked on SPRING for business and system level services for version2 release project. Used SQLLoader as an ETL tool to load data into the staging tables. Install fix packs for MQ and Message Broker. Setup High Availability for MQ servers. Integrate microservices into an existing system architecture. Used DTS Packages as ETL tool for migrating Data from SQL Server 2000 to Oracle 10g. Designing architecture, deployment and migration of the site from the physical environment to the Amazon Cloud. Designed and implemented a Cassandra NoSQL based database and associated RESTful web service that persists high-volume user profile data for vertical teams. Extensive programming development in NoSQL such as Cassandra and Oracle PLSQL packages, stored procedures, functions etc. and management of various database objects e.g. tables, indexes, views, etc.. Set up Jenkins server and build jobs to provide continuous automated builds based on polling the Git source control system during the day and periodic scheduled builds overnight to support development needs using Jenkins, Git, JUnit, Selenium and Maven. Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application. Involved in the deployment of Web-Service End-Points using CXF. Installed, secured, and configured AWS cloud servers with Linux, Tomcat, MySQL, Apache, etc. Worked closely with BA for getting the requirement and converting the requirement to technical document using UML 2.0 and functional documents in VISIO. Contribute to  create  maintain several Maven, Jenkins and Nexus plugins. Developed Message Driven Beans MDB and extensively used the JMS API. Used DB2, Oracle10g as database in order to access customers Warehouse Data from credit bureau, Used Sql Explorer and Toad as IDE. Extensively worked on PLSQL and DB2 Queries and checking performance tuning with DBA. Involved in Unit Testing, User Acceptance Testing and Bug Fixing. Implemented Simple Logging Facade for Java or SLF4J for logging and appended to a log file for debugging. Used ANT for build creation and to push onto other environments. Environment JavaJ2EE 1.7,Servlets, JSP, JSTL, HTML, JQuery, AJAX, Cloud Migration, XML 1.0, XSD 1.1, SPRING 3.0, STRUTS 2.0, Spring Securities, Spring JPA, Spring JMS, EJB, Restful web Services, SOAP 1.2, WSDL, Hibernate, Tomcat 7.0, JBoss 6.1, Eclipse Indigo 3.7, AngularJS, Maven, Jenkins, JIRA, Oracle 10g, Junit, Log4j, mockito, UML, Clear-Case UCM. Description The Project involves analysis, design, and development for Citibank Enterprise. The Brokerage and Clearing BC system is used for verification and reconciliation of equity and fixed income brokerage and clearing fees and commissions. The system collects trading data from exchanges, brokerages, clearing houses and agent banks. Responsibilities Designed and developed the product using JavaJ2EE technologies in RUP methodology. Involved in Implementation and coding of front-end screens using Java, JSP. Developed page handlers for the JSP pages for customization. Used both Struts validation and JavaScript validation depending on requirements. Build the security infrastructure for MQ using OAM Manage re-architecture of Jenkins and integration with Confluence for release management and documentation assets. Re architect a Maven based system reducing build times. Implemented validation framework for creation of validation.xml and used validation-rules.xml. Developed batch processing, involved ETL process in java to transfer batch feeds to the database using CSV, iText, Apache-POI, JAXB and JAXP technologies. Scheduled Java batch processing. Set up and administer Amazon servers AWS, Linux, Apache, MySQL, PythonDjango, ElasticSearch, tripwire, fail2ban, ssh, sendmail, sudo, etc. Used ANT 1.5 for build creation and to push onto other environments. Used NetBeans and created customized plug-ins in Plug in Development Environment PDE. Involved in Unit Testing, User Acceptance Testing and Bug Fixing. Wrote JUnit test cases for unit testing and integration testing. Tested and deployed the application on Application Server which acts as an Agent in WebLogic Application Server. Environment JavaJ2EE 1.6,Servlets, JSP, JSTL, HTML, JQuery, MQ series, AJAX, XML 1.0, XSD 1.1, SPRING 3.0, STRUTS 2.0, Spring Securities, Spring JPA, Spring JMS, EJB, Restful web Services, SOAP 1.0, WSDL, Hibernate, Tomcat 7.0, JBoss 5.1, Eclipse Galileo, Maven, Jenkins, JIRA, Oracle 10g, Junit, Log4j, mockito, UML, Clear-Case UCM, Toad, iBATIS. Description Sabre is the global leader in innovative technology that leads the travel industry. The project involves a Code changes, code fixes Coordination with Testing team, Defect Fixes, Production Deployment and Warranty Support. Developed a application, which maintains the details about the Employee, Supplier, Customer, Lesser, Financier, Contractor and Insurance Agent. All the relational, transactions like Invoice, Sales, Loan, Lease, Insurance policy, issued assets etc. are also maintained in this application. Responsibilities Involved in the Analysis, Design and Development phase of the project. Followed Agile Methodology throughout the development of the project. Creating custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of core AngularJS. Wrote JUnit test cases for unit, integration, and functional tests, run automatically by HudsonJenkins in the builds triggered by each push to Git Written Perl automation scripts to change the layout of leaf nodes. Migrated corporate Linux servers from physical servers to Amazon AWS virtual servers Used Spring Core container for Dependency Injection and wiring the components. Extensively used Collections, Regular Expressions and Page Framework Amazon specific framework, while developing the project. Used JSPs, JavaScript, AJAX, and CSS for User Interface development and client side validation. Environment JavaJ2EE 1.6,Servlets, JSP, JSTL, HTML, JQuery, AJAX, AWS, XML 1.0, Jenkins, AngularJS, XSD 1.1,SPRING3.0,STRUTS2.0,SpringSecurities,SpringJPA,SpringJMS,RestfulwebServices,WSDL,Hibernate, JBoss 5.1, Eclipse, Maven, Oracle 10g, Junit, Log4j, UML, Clear-Case,iBATIS. The project was a Web-enabled application which will serve as the platform for Farmers future e-Business initiatives with a Brand  Channel flexible framework from which Farmers Captive  Independent Agents, Zurich Small Business ZSB. Responsibilities Implemented J2EE Design patterns using MVC Model-View-Controller architecture by developing Presentation tier which includes JSPs, Custom Tag Libraries, HTML and JavaScript, Web tier includes Controller Servlets, Business tier implementing business logic using Business Facades Developed Use case models using Rational Rose v2002 Modeling tool utilizing Use case Design document as inputs Developed business components Request Handlers, Response Handlers, Data Object ModelsDOM,Business Services, Data Access ObjectsDAO, View Beans required for the end-to-end flow of the application using IBMs Web Sphere Studio Application Developer v4.0 as IDE for development, Unit Testing and deployment Environment Java 1.5, J2EE JSP 1.1, EJB 1.1, JDBC, Servlets2.1 Technologies, XML, Rational Rose 2002, IBM Web Sphere, Oracle 8i, Windows 2000. Education Bachelors in computer science Engineering CSE from India