Spoorti Pandit 832-775-8735 asmithnichesoftsolutions.com Summary of qualifications Technically sophisticated, seasoned and talented professional powered with more 9.5 years of experience in Business Analysis and various domains including Banking  Financial Services and Infrastructure industry Implemented and delivered many end to end implementation, maintenance and support projects in BFSI and Infrastructure domain. Excellent Analytical skills to understand and analyze the Business processes, Gather Requirement, perform GAP Analysis, Feasibility Study and Impact Analysis. Proficient in facilitating Joint Requirement Planning JRP sessions with Business User Groups, Subject Matter Experts and IT Groups. Extensive experience in documenting Business Requirement Documents BRD, Functional Requirement Documents FRD, Process Guides, Process Flows, User Stories and Use Cases using UML approaches. Proficient in writing Test scripts and performing Functional testing, System integration testing, User Acceptance Testing and have extensive knowledge of tools used for managing the core lifecycle of applications like HP ALM. Experience in tracking requirements throughout SDLC using the Requirements Traceability Matrix RTM. Experience in providing UAT support, preparing Job Aids and assisting in preparing User training material. In depth knowledge in Software Development Life cycle SDLC, Project Life cycle, Business Process Modeling BPM, Waterfall Software Development Methodology Expertise Requirement Gathering  Analysis, Articulating Business Requirements to Functional Requirement Specifications, Preparing Process Flows and Use Cases, Writing Test Script, Performing Functional and System Integration Testing, Supporting User Acceptance testing, Defect and Requirement tracking using HP ALM, Preparing job Aids. Worked on various tools and technologies like Mainframes, ServiceNow, HP ALM, IBM Blueworks Live, SQL Server, Toad for Oracle, MS Visio, MS Office Suite, SnagIt, SDLC, Waterfall methodology. Work Experience RoleLead Business Systems Analyst August 2016- Till Now Project Name Asset Classification Client PNC Financial Services Location Pittsburgh, PA Project Description Over time, asset have been added to the PNC investment platform without updates to the associated asset class hierarchy. As a result, the number of assets contained in the Other sub asset class category has steadily grown. Also, the classification of assets is inconsistent across various systems. The purpose of this project is to bring uniformity to the presentation of the asset classes across various AMG systems and reduce volume of securities contained in Other sub categories Responsibilities Thoroughly understood and analyzed the current asset classification hierarchy being used in the Asset Management line of business of PNC and various upstream and downstream systems consuming these asset classes. Documented the current Asset Classification hierarchy, various process flows and data flows using MS Excel and MS Visio. Gathered business requirements from various stake holders by participating in joint requirement planning sessions with the business user groups, key stake holders, subject matter experts and various IT Groups across Asset Management line of business of PNC. Performed Gap Analysis, Feasibility Analysis, Risk Assessment and Impact Analysis of the proposed requirements. Prepared Business Requirement Documents BRDs and performed business requirement walkthroughs with various stakeholders Analyzed and documented the future state asset classification hierarchy, designed and documented future state process flows and data flows. Articulated the business requirements into functional and non-functional requirements, prepared Functional Design Specifications FDS by employing UML components such as use case diagrams, activity diagrams and data flow diagrams using MS Visio. Identified and documented the project Constraints, Assumptions, Dependencies and scope Exclusions. Performed functional requirement walkthroughs with various teams including the line of business, Development and QA teams Prepared Test strategy, Test Plan, Test Scenarios and Test Scripts for various release cycles. Performed Functional Testing, System Integration Testing, Regression Testing and support User Acceptance Testing during various release cycles. Logged, Maintained and Tracked defects in various testing phases using HP ALM tool. Worked with the Development teams to ensure the timely closure of the defects. Served as a liaison between the business stakeholders, development team, QA team, various upstream and downstream application teams in designing and implementing the functionalities. Created the Requirement Traceability Matrix to trace requirements throughout the development and testing processes. Provided post production support after various application release cycles. EnvironmentTools Mainframes, SDLC Waterfall, HP ALM, MS Visio, MS Office Suite, SQL Server, Toad for Oracle. RoleLead Business Systems Analyst May2015- July 2016 Project Name Prospectus Delivery Improvements Client PNC Financial Services Location Pittsburgh, PA Project DescriptionPNC was utilizing Broadridges Prospectus delivery service to determine the eligibility of a client to receive Post sales and the Interim communication. To comply with the regulatory requirements, PNC wanted to revisit the eligibility of the various clients to receive prospectus and determine the consent type required to household and consolidate the prospectus. The objective of the project was also to reduce the cost of paper mailing by implementing e-Delivery for both post sales and interim prospectus delivery processes. Responsibilities Thoroughly understood the Post sales,Interim and e-delivery Prospectus delivery processes of PNC, various systems involved, various integrations and the associated workflows Documented the current state process flows for both Post sales and interim prospectus delivery using MS Visio. Gathered Business Requirements by Facilitating and conducting Joint Application Development JAD sessions with various Stake holders, Decision makers, Business Users, SMEs and IT Groups across Asset Management Line of Business of PNC. Conducted Gap analysis, Feasibility Study, Risk Assessment and Impact Analysis of the proposed requirements. Designed and documented future state process flows for post sales, Interim and e-delivery Prospectus delivery. Provided the solution that addressed the pain areas of the inherent design. Prepared High level design documents like Functional Requirement Document FRD, Use cases and User stories to help the stakeholders and the Development team understand the design and functionality of the future state. Performed requirement walkthroughs with the Development team, QA teams to ensure complete understanding and coverage of requirements, Coordinated and worked with various upstream and downstream applications teams to ensure various interfacesintegrations are implemented as required. Reviewed Test strategy, Test plan and Test scripts and provide feedback to the QA team Conducted application testing including system testing, functional testing and integration testing. Logged, tracked and maintained the defects using HP ALM, Provided UAT support during the UAT Testing by recreating the defects and Performing Root Cause analysis of the defects. Worked with the development team for defect fixes, retested the fixes and ensured the timely closure of the defects. Traced the Requirements throughout the software development cycle using HP ALM. EnvironmentTools Mainframes, SDLC Waterfall, HP ALM, MS Visio, MS Office Suite, SharePoint, SQL Server, Toad for Oracle. RoleLead Business Analyst Oct 2014- April 2015 Project NameITSM- Employee On boarding Client PNC Financial Services Location Pittsburgh, PA Project Description This objective of the project was to add the Employee Onboarding Stream onto the ServiceNow platform. The project dealt with the design and development of an application that would support the new hire onboarding process. Responsibilities Thoroughly understood the current Employee On boarding process of PNC and the various systems involved, identified and analyzed the pain points of the current system Documented the current state process flows using Business Process Modelling tool IBM Blue works and MS Visio. Facilitated and conducted Joint Requirement Planning JRP to gather Business requirements from various stake holders and also interviewed the Business Users, Key Stake Holders, SMEs, and Decision makers across all domains. Performed requirement analysis and documented the requirements in the Business Requirement Document BRD Conducted Gap analysis to understand new business model and additional functionalities to be incorporated into the ITSM ServiceNow EOB application. Performed Feasibility study and Impact analysis of each requirement Designed and documented future state process flows for Employee Onboarding and provided solutions to overcome the pain areas of the current system. Prepare High level design documents like Functional Requirement Document FRD, process guide and user stories for the New EOB system to help the EOB stakeholders and the Development team understand the design and functionality of the future state. Created the Requirement Traceability Matrix for tracing the Requirements throughout the application development process Performed requirement walkthroughs with the QA team to ensure complete understanding and coverage of requirements in the Functional and Integration test scripts Conducted application testing including system testing, functional testing and integration testing and logged, tracked and maintained the defects using HP ALM. Created Use Cases for the EOB stream. Prepared User Acceptance Test scripts, coordinated and provided UAT support during the UAT Testing by recreating the defects and Performing Root Cause analysis of the defects to ensure the closure of the defects on time. Prepared Job aids and assisted the training team to come up with the training material for the New Onboarding system EnvironmentTools Service Now, SDLC Waterfall, IBM Blueworks live, HP ALM, MS Visio, MS Office Suite, SharePoint, Snagit Role Business Analyst Feb 2014- Sep 2014 Project NameITSM- Service Request Fulfillment Client PNC Financial Services Location Pittsburgh, PA Project Description PNC was managing many disparate Service Request Fulfillment systems. This projects objective was to add the Service Request Fulfillment systems onto the ServiceNow platform to continue building the foundation for future consolidation efforts of having all of PNCs IT Request types into ServiceNow to create a single IT Request window for end-users. Responsibilities Understood the As IS service request process of Hardware, Software, VPN, LAN, Desk phone of PNC and the various systems involved, identified and analyzed the pain points of the current systems Facilitated and conducted Joint Requirement Planning JRP, interviewed the Business Users, Key Stake Holders, SMEs to gather Business requirements across all domains. Performed requirement analysis and documented the requirements in the Business Requirement Document BRD Conducted Gap analysis, Feasibility study and Impact analysis of various requirements Prepare High level design documents like Functional Requirement Document FRD and process guides for the New Service Request system employing UML components such as Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams and Process Flow Diagrams using MS Visio. Created the Requirement Traceability Matrix for tracing the Requirements throughout the application development process Performed requirement walkthroughs with the QA team to ensure complete understanding and coverage of requirements in the Functional and Integration test scripts Conducted application testing including system testing, functional testing and integration testing and logged, tracked and maintained the defects using HP ALM. Prepared User Acceptance Test scripts, coordinated and provided UAT support during the UAT Testing by recreating the defects and Performing Root Cause analysis of the defects to ensure the closure of the defects on time. Prepared Job aids and assisted the training team to come up with the training material for the New Onboarding system EnvironmentTools Service Now, SDLC Waterfall, IBM Blueworks live, HP ALM, MS Visio, MS Office Suite, SharePoint, Snagit Role Business Systems Analyst Jan 2013 to Jan 2014 Project NameNew Account Opening Client PNC Financial Services Location Pittsburgh, PA Project DescriptionThe existing process of establishing a new brokerage account involved data entry in multiple applications. The aim of the project was to improve the quality of data through more robust system integration, improve the user experience by improving the ease of use, improve efficiency by providing a single process for new account opening, reduce the number of NIGO accounts through improved business rules and edits and Reduce the number of manual interventionsadditional data entry required by the new accounts area. Responsibilities Thoroughly studied the inherent AS-IS system specifications of Brokerage New Account opening system of PNCI to have a clear understanding of the business processes and associated workflows. Identified the pain points in the existing New Account Opening System, analyzed and provided solutions to overcome these pain points, Conducted Fit Gap analysis to understand functionalities to be incorporated into the new system. Conducted online polling to understand the level of pain, frequency of occurrence and the benefit of resolution of various pain areas which involved participation from various stakeholders. Contributed to define the scope of the project by analyzing and prioritizing the pain areas based on the polling results. Participated in Joint Requirement Planning JRP, Joint Application Development JAD with Business User Groups, Subject Matter Experts and IT Groups catering to Investment Line of Business of PNC. Gathered high level requirements from various stake holders by interviewing the Key Stake Holders, SMEs, and Decision makers across all domains. Performed the Requirement Analysis, Fit Gap analysis, Impact analysis and Feasibility study for each requirement. Prepared Functional Design Specifications FDS employing UML components such as Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams and Process Flow Diagrams using MS Visio and documented the entire process journey including documentation of constraints, assumptions, business impacts, project risks, dependencies and scope exclusions. Created the Requirement Traceability Matrix and traced requirements throughout the development and testing processes and verify adherence using the Requirements Traceability Matrix RTM. Performed requirement walkthroughs with the Development team and UI team to answer all their queries and help them to prepared Screen Mock ups, User Interface designs for various functional requirements. EnvironmentTools SDLC Waterfall,IBM Blueworks live, HP ALM, MS Visio, MS Office Suite, SharePoint Role Business Systems Analyst August 2012- Dec 2012 Project NameIR Portal Client PNC Financial Services Location Pittsburgh, PA Project DescriptionDesktop Portal is a one stop shop for the Users which provides a 360-degree view of the client information, various accounts in various PNC systems as per the entitlements of the user. It provides SSO authentication to various applications of the PNC Bank. The project was related to the maintenance and enhancement of the Desktop portal application. Responsibilities Gathered and Analyzed Requirements, prepared Functional Design Specifications FDS employing UML components such as Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams and Process Flow Diagrams using MS Visio including documentation of constraints, assumptions, business impacts, project risks, dependencies and scope exclusions Performed the Fit Gap analysis, Impact analysis and Feasibility study for various proposed application enhancements. Prepared Screen Mock ups, User Interface designs for various requirements. Created Requirement Traceability Matrix and traced the requirements throughout the development and testing processes and verify adherence using the Requirements Traceability Matrix RTM. Performed requirement walkthroughs with the Development and QA teams with the aim to develop testing strategies and test plans such that test cases reflect user needs. Assisted QA team by Reviewing Test Scenarios, Test Scripts and clarifying requirements to ensure complete coverage of requirements. Conducted application testing including system testing, functional testing, integration testing, and supported User Acceptance Testing using HP ALM for logging tracking and maintaining defects. EnvironmentTools IBM Websphere, SDLC Waterfall, IBM Blueworks live, HP ALM, MS Visio, MS Office Suite, Sharepoint, Snagit Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. Role Business Systems Analyst May 2011- July 2012 Project NameProfiling and Playbook Client PNC Financial Services Location Mumbai, India Project DescriptionProfiling and Playbook project was intended to develop a consistent, personalized and repeatable process to guide clients to the appropriate asset allocation models, provide a means to service the client so that advice received is transferable from one ISA to another, manage PNCs risk by following a documented procedure and Leverage PNCs research and analysis to narrow the field of funds through a thorough due diligence and screening process. Responsibilities Thoroughly studied the As Is processes of profiling a PNC Investment customer to have a clear understanding of the business processes and associated system workflows. Gathered Business requirements from business users and various Investment stake holders, Conducted Gap analysis to understand new business model and additional functionalities to be incorporated into the Profiling and Playbook application. Clarified and prioritized requirements by conducting brainstorming sessions with the stakeholders and SMEs. Prepared Functional Requirement Document FRD employing UML components such as Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams and Process Flow Diagrams using MS Visio. Performed Data Analysis, Feasibility Study and Impact Analysis of new business requirements. Documented use cases to address various business scenarios. Prepared the Requirements Traceability Matrix RTM to track requirements throughout the development and testing processes Created a complex dashboard for business users to track progress of various investment goals of a customer. EnvironmentTools SDLC Waterfall, IBM Blueworks live, HP ALM, MS Visio, MS Office Suite, SharePoint, Snagit Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. Role Business Systems Analyst May 2009- April 2011 Project NameBOSE- Tier 1 Client Bose Corporation Location Mumbai, India Project DescriptionBOSE uses SAP for carrying out its various Sales and Distribution related business Processes. This objective of the project was to support and maintain Sales and distribution module of SAP . Responsibilities Understanding and analyzing various sales related business processes like Order Management, Repair, Consignment and Gift Cards etc. Followed a systematic approach for eliciting, organizing, and documenting requirements of the system. Performed Gap Analysis, Data Analysis, Feasibility Study and Impact Analysis. Prepared Functional requirement specifications FRD. Performed requirement walkthroughs with the Development team. Documented use cases to address various scenarios. Tracing requirements throughout the development and testing processes and verify adherence using the Requirements Traceability Matrix RTM. Creating Test Strategy, Test Scenarios and Test Scripts. Performing System Testing, Functional Testing, Integration Testing, User Acceptance Testing and tracking and managing them through Mercury QC and HP ALM tools. EnvironmentTools SAP, SDLC Waterfall, IBM Blueworks live, HPQC, QTP, MS Visio, MS Office Suite, SharePoint, Snagit Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. Role Business Analyst June 2008- April 2009 Project NameCPG Practice Client TCS Internal Location Chennai, India Project Description This was an internal practice group of the Retail vertical of TCS. The focus was on coming up with the solution and offering for the retail clients to increase their efficiency and productivity, working on RFPs and other documentation. Responsibilities Worked on RFPs like PG and Michaels Understanding the various Sales and distribution processes for the retail industry. Created Business process mapping of the legacy systems of the prospect clients using MS Visio. Worked on various solutions and offerings for the Retail clients. EnvironmentToolsMS Visio, MS Office Suite, SharePoint, Snagit