Saiteja 1940437-0150 saitejaatworkgmail.com PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY Around 8 years of experience in the requirement analysis, design, development, testing, implementation, and support using Object Oriented Methodologies and JavaJ2EE technologies. Actively involved in each phase of Software Development Life cycle SDLC. Expertise in client scripting language and server scripting languages like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Groovy, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, JSP, NodeJS, ExtJS, BackboneJS, ReactJS, JSON, Bootstrap. Extensive experience working in Spring framework, Struts framework, OR Mapping Hibernate framework, Mybatis and web services. Experience using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring DAO, Spring Data, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations, Spring AOP, Spring Transactions and Spring Security. Experience in developing applications using Micro Services architecture. Expert in Core Java with strong understanding of Swing, socket programming, Collections, Multithreading, Event handling, Exception handling and Generics. Expertise in developing reliable and scalable enterprise applications using Servlets, JSPs, Structs, JSTL, JDBC, AJAX, JSF, EJB and Web Services. Strong work experience in application integration and communicating using SOA, Web Services such as Simple Object Access ProtocolSOAP, Representational State Transfer REST Restful, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, WSDL, UDDI, Apache CXF, JAXB, XSD, Axis 2. Excellent knowledge and experience in writing SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers and views using various databases such as MS SQL Server, MySQL, IBM DB2, Oracle databases and NoSQL database systems like Mongo DB, Cassandra. Expertise in XML technologies such as XSL, XSLT, XML schemas, XPath, XForms, XSL-FO and parsers like SAX, DOM. Experienced in JMS and Kafka over messaging to exchange the information in more reliable and asynchronous way in enterprise Applications. Used Apache Active MQ and Apache Camel as JMS provider. Experience in Creating and configuring the continuous delivery pipelines for deploying Micro services and lambda functions using Jenkins CI server. Hands on experience in deploying application in Google App Engine. Utilized Java 1.8 features like Lambda expressions and Stream API for Bulk data operations on Collections which would increase the performance of the Application. Managed Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3 bucket, ELB, Auto-Scaling, SNS, SQS, AMI, IAM, Dynamo DB, Elastic search, Virtual Private Cloud VPC through AWS Console and API Integration. Hands on experience with amazon web services AWS and amazon cloud technologies such as Amazon EC2 virtual servers and Amazon Cloud Watch monitoring. Skilled in programming scripting languages like Java Deploy application updates to AWS and monitored the load balancing of different instances. Deployed the Applications into Docker container and made easily accessible at runtime using Pivotal Cloud Foundry and other cloud services like AWS, Netflix Eureka. Experience in developing logging and standard mechanism based on Log4j and SLF4j. Experience in working in agile practices like ATDD and TDD using Junit, and mocking libraries like Mockito, Jmock for Java applications and Karma JS, Jasmine, Mocha JS, cucumber JS and Selenium web driver for UI applications. Worked on implementing full life cycle of software development process SDLC in using version control tools like Git, Rational Clear Case, Tortoise SVN, CVS Concurrent Version System. Hands-on experience working with Continuous Integration CI build-automation tools such as Jenkins along with Build Plugins like Maven, Gradle and Apache Ant. Experienced in the formation and mentoring of project teams working on Agile methodologies to deliver business critical software applications using tools like Jira. Significant experience in web development tools like NetBeans, Adobe Dreamweaver, Spring Tool Suite, Eclipse, intelliJ and RAD. Hands on experience with Windows, UNIX and Linux Environments. Having Experience on Shell Scripting and Deployment of Applications in Server. Experience in designing, developing, and deploying J2EE applications on IBM Web sphere, Web logic, Apache Tomcat, Glassfish, Redhat and JBOSS Servers. TECHNICAL SKILLS PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Client MasterCard Feb 2016  Till Date Location St Louis, MO Role Full Stack Java Developer Description MasterCard Worldwide is an American multinational financial services corporation. Its principal business is to process payments between the banks of merchants and the card issuing banks or credit unions of the purchasers who use the MasterCard brand debit and credit cards to make purchases. Responsibilities Involved in the complete SDLC software development life cycle of the application from requirement analysis to testing. Extensively worked on Responsive Web Design RWD page development using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript, Backbone.js, Twitter Bootstrap, Ajax, Angular JS, JSON, JSF UI Components and JSP. Defined new validations through AngularJS for the form field validation implemented through HTML5. Used NodeJS to run AngularJS on server with mock JSON data and completed the UI development independent of server. Implemented new features in Groovy programming language as a part of Jenkins continuous delivery. Used Core Java concepts like Swing, socket programming, Collections, Multithreading, Event handling, Exception handling and Generics. Utilized Java 1.8 features like Lambda expressions and Stream API for Bulk data operations on Collections which would increase the performance of the Application. Developed the application using J2EE Design Patterns like Business Delegate, Factory, Singleton, Session Facade, Service Locator and DAO. Used Java8 features in developing the code like Lambda expressions, creating resource classes, fetching documents from database. Integrated Scala Web Service with Relational DB using Slick Used JAX-Web services to interact with other applications using SOAP and WSDL file. Developed RESTful API for assessment indicators module and token based authentication for RESTful services using Spring Security. Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web based solution. Used Jersey to implement Restful Web Service and used XML form to transfer the data. Exposed SOAP webservices as APIs using Apigee Edge by implementing API Proxies Deployed and Monitored Micro Services Using Pivotal Cloud Foundry, also Managed Domains and Routes with the Cloud Foundry. Followed Agile Methodology in analyze, define, and document the application, which will support functional and business requirements. Coordinate these efforts with Functional Architects. Worked and involved in deployment of core platform technologies, techniques, and web app frameworks such as spring, JBOSS, Tomcat, JSON, XML, HTML5, and Web Services. Used Spring MVC module to develop MVC Architecture. Developed the Controller to handle the requests and responses. Used Core Java to develop Business Logic as Spring Beans. Configured Spring Container to implement IOCDI of the Spring Beans, and to manage the beans life circle. Worked on Apache Camel, RabbitMQ for sending messages over queue. Deployed the Application into Docker container and made easily accessible at runtime using Cloud Foundry and other cloud services like AWS, Netflix Eureka Used Spring Security and OAuth2.0 for Authentication and Authorization of the application. Implemented Spring AOP for declarative transaction management. Created Stored Procedures, functions and Packages in Oracle 10g using SQL and PLSQL for the Audit Trail using Oracle 10g as backend. Wrote Microservices to exportimport data and task scheduling and Spring boot, Spring and Hibernate in the Micro services and Swagger API for Microservices. Developed API for using AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in the AWS Designed, Configured and deployed Amazon Web Services AWS for a multitude of applications utilizing the Amazon cloud formation. Experienced in setting up Amazon EC2 instances, virtual private cloud VPCs, and security groups. Setting up databases in AWS using RDS, storage using S3 bucket and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket. Developed POJO objects and used Hibernate as the Object-Relational Mapping ORM tool to access the persistent data from SQL Server. Managed code versioning with GitHub and deployment to staging and production servers Used Rest Controllers to replace the existing operations layer, which acts as bridge between business layer and the UI. Worked on Solr, Elastic Search, Kafka, Flume, MangoDB and Cassendra. Used Jenkins as build management tool for continuous integration process. Used Google App Engine cloud services to launch Linux and windows machines. Developed Unit Test Cases. Used Junit for unit testing, Selenium for the testing of the application. Configured pom.xml to deploy the project using Maven. Provided Technical support for production environments resolving the issues, analyzing the defects, providing and implementing the solution defects. Environment Java, Lambda, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Apache Camel, AJAX, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JSON, JSP, JNDI, Oracle, Apache Camel, RabbitMQ, Spring AOP, Hibernate, Springcloud, Google Cloud Platform Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, JDBC, Web-Services, SOA Service-oriented Architecture, AWS, Redis, REST, JAX-RS, Jersey, JUnit, JAX-B, WebSphere, JIRA, Maven, GIT, RAD, Jenkins, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, Cassendra, Agile Methodology. Client BCBS Dec 2014  Jan 2016 Location Chicago, IL Role JAVA Full Stack Developer Description Blue Cross and Blue Shield is a leading insurance company owned by its policyholder. BCBS is the health insurance and health care provider company. Find a plan is a web based J2EE application, created to help individuals and families easily shop for, and buy health insurance. Well mark offers a variety of insurance plans, as well as tools to help you choose the plan thats right for you. Responsibilities Involved in SDLC requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing of application developed using AGILE methodology. Created user-friendly GUI interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Node.js, ExpressJS, Backbone.js, AJAX, XML and JSON. Involved in designing the client-side module architecture based on new Angular Framework. Used Core Java concepts like Swing, socket programming, Collections, Multithreading, Event handling, Exception handling and Generics. Implemented persistence framework using Hibernate Handled Transaction Management using the provided data source. Responsible for designing Hibernate mapping files based on business logic and Object relationships. Developed restful web service APIs using Spring Framework such as Spring Core, Spring MVC, Spring AOP and Java Persistence API with a backend PostgreSQL and Cassendra database. Involved in developing Web Services to send XML request and reading the response SOAP UI from Java platform. Installed and configured various components of Hadoop ecosystem and maintained their integrity. Involved in extracting customers Big data from various data sources into Hadoop HDFS. This included data from mainframes, databases and logs data from servers. Consumed Web Services to interact with other external interfaces to exchange the data in the form of XML and by using SOAP. Used Apigee as a API gateway for APIs transformation, multiple authentication mechanisms Migrating application functionality in sending emails from MySQL to NoSQL database implemented by Google Cloud platform which handles BIG Data. Extensively used Google Cloud resources like Compute Engine, IAM, Google Container Registry, Container Builder and Cloud Storage buckets. Migrating servers, databases, and applications from AWS On-premises to Google cloud platform Created Restful Web services using Jersey API JAX-RS while data exchange was carried out between application and services using JSON. Used Apache Camel to implement Java Message Service JMS API for sending and receiving email notifications to the employee about notifications to their portal. Creating and supporting of JMS, MQ connection factory, topics, queues, channel, listeners. Implemented microservices using Spring boot, spring based microservices, and enabled discovery using Netflix eureka server. Used Java-PHP bridge code to integrate Java with PHP. Used Maven Deployment Descriptor Setting up build environment by writing Maven build.xml, taking build configuration and deployment of the application on JBoss Application Server. Used Spring MVC, Ajax and Dependency Injection for handling presentation and business logic. To maintain loose coupling between layers published the business layer as services and injected the necessary dependent components using Spring IOC and published cross cutting concerns like Logging, User Interface exceptions, Transactions using Spring AOP. Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate. Used Apache Camel framework for connectivity to different APIs and transports. Created data model and generated Hibernate mappings and domain objects using Hibernate tools. Integrated spring and hibernate together and worked on developing backend components and services using Hibernate and spring. Extensively used HQL and SQL for querying databases. Developed Message Driven Bean for asynchronous sending Messages using JMS. Used Rest methodology for the service layer interface and used JSON for the data transformation. Developed various AJAX and JSON calls for the communication between the server and the UI. Developed web services for produce and consumed the services by making Web Service Calls to remote services in different applications. Used Spring JMS module for lookup for the queues and MDBs for the listeners Established Database Connectivity using Hibernate OR mapping with Spring ORM for MySQL Server. Developed the Mapping Resource Files for the database entities. Packaged and deployed the application in IBM Web sphere. Used IntelliJ as IDE to develop the application and followed the standard features for debugging and running. Written LINUX shell scripts to identify user login information. Playback and technical presentations to the clients on acquired knowledge. Generating reports in PDF using iText Open source and excel file formats. Used log4J for application logging and notification tracing mechanisms. Analysis and Bug fixing of the production problems and defects along with enhancements Used Rational Clear Case for the version control Used Maven as the build tool. Used J-Unit Testing and Ant Scripts. Used JIRA for tracking the Project Stories in AGILE Methodology. Environment Java, JDK, J2EE EJBs, JSPServlet, JDBC, Mongo DB, XML, HTML, CSS, Java Script, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, NodeJS, JSON, JMS, Struts, Spring, Apache Camel, MVC design patterns, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Agile, Ant, Maven, Netflix, Rational Clear Case, Web sphere Server, IBM Web Sphere, Apache Camel, SOAP UI, JNDI, Log4J, PostgreSQL, MySQL Server, Google cloud platform, JIRA , RMI, IntelliJ, IDE, LINUX. Client US Cellular Nov 2013  Nov 2014 Location Knoxville, TN Role Java Developer Description Us Cellular is a leading company in providing the wireless services to the mobile platform. One message is the system that Us Cellular uses to send communications to its customers. One message is the Enterprise Wide application for all transactional customer communications. The application supports all Email, SMS, EMS, and MMS communications for various organizations in Us Cellular One message stores customer notification Preferences in the preference center where customer can configure various notification types. Responsibilities Designed and developed the REST based Micro Services using the Spring Boot. Writing end-to-end flow i.e. controllers classes, service classes, DAOs classes as per the Spring MVC design and writing business logics using core java API and data structures Design, develop  deliver the REST APIs that are necessary to support new feature development and enhancements in an agile environment. Used Core Java concepts like Swing, socket programming, Collections, Multithreading, Event handling, Exception handling and Generics. Used Spring JMS related MDB to receive the messages from other team with IBMMQ for queuing Developed presentation layer code, using JSP, HTML, AJAX and JQuery Developed the Business layer using spring IOC, AOP, DTO, and JTA Developed the Persistence layer DAO using HIBERNATE Worked with Open symphony workflows and delivered work flow module to the client. Developed the project using industry standard design patterns like Singleton, Business Delegate Factory Pattern for better maintenance of code and re-usability Developing application module coded on Spring Batch and Apache Camel. Written Jenkins pipeline template script in Groovy programming language for the automation of build and deployment process. Created groovy scripts to extract transaction volume information and email to management on daily basis. Involved in debugging and tuning the PLSQL code, tuning queries, optimization for the Oracle database using Explain Plan, hints and also worked on Partition tables using Range method. Developed unit test cases using Junit framework for testing accuracy of code and logging with SLF4j  Log4j Worked with defect tracking system Clear Quest Worked with IDE as Spring STS and deployed into spring tomcat server, WebSphere 6  used Maven as build tool Responsible for code sanity in integration stream used Clear Case as version control tool. Environment Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, MongoDB, Apache Camel, symphony, JavaScript, JSP, Spring, Spring Batch, Spring web services , XML, UML, JUNIT, IBM WebSphere, Maven, Clear Case, SoapUI, Oracle 11g, Spring JMS, IBM MQ. Client FedEx Jan 2012  July 2013 Location Memphis, TN Role JavaJ2EE Developer Description FedEx Corporation provides customers and businesses worldwide with a broad portfolio of transportation, e-commerce, and business services. The company offers integrated business applications through operating companies competing collectively and managed collaboratively, under the respected FedEx brand. Responsibilities Involved in all phases of the Software development life cycle SDLC. Designed project related documents which includes Use case, Class and Sequence diagrams. Involved in design, development, testing and implementation of the process systems, working on iterative life cycles business requirements, and creating Detail Design Document. Using Agile methodologies to plan work for every iteration and used continuous integration tool to make the build passes before deploying the code to other environments. Extensive experience in developing PLSQL Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages, Cursors, Collections Nested tables and Varrays, Records, Object types and Database Triggers. Created HTML Wireframes based in the Detailed System Specification document Developed the presentation layer of the application using MVC architecture of spring framework. Created DAO classes to interact with DB2 database. Used Spring ORM module to integrate with Hibernate. Used Core Java concepts like Swing, socket programming, Collections, Multithreading, Event handling, Exception handling and Generics. Used JMS API for sending and receiving the messages on the queue. Used the spring validation and Tiles Framework in the presentation layer. Developed user interface using JSP, Spring Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application. Developed user interface with Java Server Pages, Ajax support to speed up the application form filling. Used Apache Axis as the Web Service framework for creating and consuming Web Service clients using SOAP and WSDL. Used Rally for tracking purpose. Designed various tables required for the project using DB2 database. Used JBOSS server for deploying the application. Used Ant for build, create JAR, WAR, EAR files and deploy the EAR files automatically. Used Junit to test the application classes. Used Log4J to capture the logging information. Environment Java, J2EE, JavaScript, JSP, AJAX, XML, Agile, Spring, Eclipse IDE, DB2, Rational Rose, Log4j, Junit, Ant, JBOSS, Rally, Apache Axis, Web Service, SOAP, WSDL. Client InfoTech Sep 2010  Dec 2011 Location Hyderabad, India Role Java Developer Description The objective of Item Management is to set-up, maintain, and share Item information in a flexible system that easily supports Unilevers growth, increases speed to market and improves data accuracy, while reducing user workload. Guided Setup is one module of the project which functions as a wizard to complete the configuration and creation of various types of items like Single Items, Multiple Items and Assortment Items. Responsibilities Involved in the design and development of an entire Module  Guided Set Up. Developed user interface through JSP and Servlets. Developed Action classes and Action Forms using the struts framework. Developed Customs tags to display dynamic contents and to avoid large amounts of java code in JSP pages Connected to database through JDBC. Extensive experience working with XML DOM and SAX. Used SQL-server to store the items in the database. Used Session beans for navigation of steps. Used Entity beans for storing the database in to database. Developed Session Beans as the clients of Entity Beans to maintain the Client state. Developed Ant Scripts to build and deploy EAR files on to Tomcat Server. Analyzed the EJB performance in terms of scalability by various Loads, Stress tests using Bean- test tool. Extensively used Eclipse while writing code as IDE. Written complex SQL queries, stored procedures, functions and triggers in PLSQL. Developed test cases and used Junit for Unit Testing. Used CVS for version controlling. Environment Java, J2EE, Servlets, XML DOM and SAX, JSP, EJB, JavaScript, CSS, JDBC, Struts, Ant, Web Logic Application Server, WSAD, Eclipse IDE, SQL-Server, Apache Tomcat, Oracle, PLSQL, CVS, PVCS, Junit, Windows. Client SLK Software Jun 2009 - Aug 2010 Location Bangalore, India Role Java Developer Description SLK Software Services is an offshore development company providing end-to-end solutions using its proven methodologies based on SEI CMM Level 4 Guidelines. SLK Billing Care is the Web-based front office application used by customer service representatives to create and maintain customer accounts, manage their services, and handle customer issues. SLK Billing care is designed as the front-end application to customer related activities supported by SLK charging and other billing products. Responsibilities Developed web application using Struts 2.X, JSP, Servlets, Java beans that uses MVC design pattern Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML, CSS and JSP Wrote JavaScript for client side validation. Used Eclipse as IDE tool for creating Servlets, JSP, and XML. Wrote SQL for JDBC prepared statements to retrieve the data from database. Monitored the logs using Log4J and fixed the problem The application was deployed on the Tomcat. Involved in build and deploying the application using ANT Used CVS as version control system Worked on bug fixing and Production Support Environment Java, JDBC, Struts, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JSP, Servlets, Tomcat, Oracle, Eclipse IDE, CVS, ANT, Log4J.