Sarath Kumar M 469-324-9282 Email sarathm.javagmail.com PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY 7 Years of experience in Software Development Lifecycle SDLC core areas such as Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Deployment of Object Oriented, Client-Server, Web-Based, Distributed and Enterprise Applications with JavaJ2EE technologies. Strong experience in Software Development Methodology such as Agile Scrum Methodology, Iterative and Waterfall. Extensive experience with both Core and Advanced Java concepts which include Java, Servlets, JSP, Java Script, JDBC, JSF, XML,EJB, Struts, Spring MVC, Ajax, jQuery, Hibernate, JDBC, and Web Services. Extensive knowledge in Front End technologies like JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, XML and CSS. Have good experience to implement Object Oriented design diagrams for Application system in UML, using IBM Rational Rose and Microsoft Visio. Expertise in using and implementing various design patterns such as Singleton, Bridge, Abstract Factory, Decorator, and Iterator etc. Proficient in implementation of frameworks like Struts, spring, JSF, AJAX frameworks Rich Faces, My Faces and ORM frameworks like Hibernate. Experience in OOPS concepts like Inheritance, Encapsulation, Abstraction, and Polymorphism. Worked in Multithreading environment by Thread Synchronization, Thread Pool, Class level and object level threading. Expertise in designing and developing J2EE compliant systems using IDE tools like Eclipse, RAD Rational application Development, NetBeans and JDeveloper. Expertise in Developing and Deploying applications using Webservers like Apache, Karaf 3.x, Kafka and Application Servers like Apache Tomcat 5.x6.x7.x8.x,WebLogic, IBM WebSphere, JBOSS, and JRun. Experience in building web applications using various frameworks such as Spring Framework 2.0-4.0, Spring MVC Model View Controller, Spring Boot, IOC Inversion of Control, DAO Data Access Object and familiarity with AOP Aspect Oriented Programming. Worked on Struts open source java framework utilizing Strut Tiles, Strut Controllers Action and Forms and Validation framework for client, server validation. Extensive experience in Core Java concepts like Exception handling, Multi-threading, Synchronization, Serialization, IO, Collections framework, Java Beans. Extensive experience in developing GUI using HTML, CSS, JQuery, Java Script, EXT JS, DOJO, AJAX, Knockout JS, Bootstrap and Angular.js, Node.js, Backbone.js, Underscore.js. Involved in development of SOAP based web services using WSDL, SOAP, JAXB, CXF, AXIS, JAX-WS and Restful web services using JAX-RS, CXF and JERSEY APIs. Experience using ORM framework like HibernateJPA for mapping Java classes with database and using Hibernate Query Language HQL. Knowledge on service oriented architecture SOA, workflows and web services using XML Test Driven Development TDD Environment, SOAP and Restful web services. Expertise in unit testing the applications using Junit Framework, Mockito and developed logging and standard mechanism based on Log4J, SLF4j. Experience in implementation of version controls tools like CVS, Tortoise SVN, Clear Case and GIT. Experience in Oracle 8i9i10g11g, DB2, SQL Server, PostgreSQL, MySQL, MongoDB database programming using PLSQL and standard built-in Oracle Packages. Proficient with software build process and writing Maven and ANT Build Scripts for automated build and deployment process. Experience with Build tools like, ANT, MAVEN, and GRADLE. Experience in Agile software development process, Test Driven Development and Scrum. Production Support-Provided development quick fixes and technical support for complex critical applications. Coordinated with other teams to resolve end-user issues promptly. Experience with code coverage tools like Clover, Jacoco, Eclipse Emma, coburtura. Excellent written and verbal communication skills, Analytical, Problem Solving skills, strict attention to detail and ability to work independently, leadwork within a team environment. TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES Education Bachelors from JNTU-India Professional Experience Client GE Appliances, Louisville, KY Feb16Till date Role Sr. Java Full stack Developer Description This project is to provide a range of engineering services across the entire product life cycle, starting from conception, design, development and testing, to maintenance and support - all to address specific needs as customer products mature. Responsibilities Involved in analysis, design, and developing middleware using Servlets, Java Beans, Hibernate, springs and doing enhancements and issues resolutions. Extensive uses of Angular JS directives to get JSON data using AJAX from RESTful API and modify DOM. Designed the presentation layer GUI using JavaScript, JSP, HTML, CSS, Angular.JS, Customs tags and developed Client-Side validations. Experience in developing applications using AngularJS, Bootstrap like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, Combo-Box and Button etc. Developed Single page application and structured the JavaScript code using AngularJS. Used React JS to make webpages rendering faster, instead of using ng-repeat in Angular JS used ngReact to achieve the same. Making sure react is flexible and provides hooks that allow you to interface with other libraries and frameworks Designed UI pages using JSP, HTML, Angular JS, Node JS, Java Script, CSS, AJAX, JQUERY, JSP, JSON and Tag libraries. Followed Single Page Application SPA Pattern and used AngularJS MVC to build a cross-browser complaint application. Designed and developed applications with Eclipse in java using STRUTS Framework running on Web Sphere Server. Developed the DAO layer for the application using spring, Hibernate and developed various logics and reports using HQL and Hibernate criteria. Used Hibernate as ORM to map Java classes to data base tables. Implemented Spring MVC architecture and increased modularity by allowing the separation of crosscutting concerns using Spring Boot. Involved with Spring IOC concepts to integrate Hibernate DAO. Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, file that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern. Developed Web Services for data transfer using Restful WebServices Extensively used Core Spring Framework for Dependency Injections of components and Spring JDBC for managing all the database communication and exception handling. Implemented Multithread Executor Thread to concurrent for distributed SOAP Web Services. Extensively worked with collections classes like Array List, Hash Map, Iterator, concurrent etc. Used SOA to provide service enablement capability SOAP and REST services for seeded and custom integration interfaces within the oracle E business suite. Involved in developing  exposing web services and also consumption of Web Services like Restful Web services. Involved in exception handling testing using SOAP UI and Security of Mule endpoint through WSSR. Implemented Product-Retrieval Service as SOAP based service using Apache frame works. Responsible to integrate applications for web- based environment using SOA. Involved in performing Unit and Integration testing JUnit. Strictly followed Test Driven Development TDD. Approach environment using agile methodologies. Creating  Exposing Restful Web Services using RAD editor and used Maven build for the deployment. Involved in Unit  Integration testing for different Modules in the application. Used Web logic as Application Server to host the Application. Developed REST services to talk with adapter classes and exposed them to the angular JS front-end. Worked on Restful web services which enforced a stateless client server and support JSON few changes from SOAP to RESTFUL Technology. Developed data objects to communicate with databases using JPA, Hibernate and JDBC frameworks. Middleware Services Layer is implemented using EJB Enterprise Java Beans-stateless. Wrote Java Scripts validations to validate the fields of the Registration Screen and login screen. Also used Ajax framework for server communication and seamless user experience. Developed Web Services components using XML, XPath. Development of MQ Application programs for JMS environments using queues and messages. Working with JMS handling and managing exception conditions. Used Java Collections API extensively in the applications. Used JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking and project management. Involved in writing the batch jobs, UNIX scripts to loadmanipulate the data. Created SQL queries, NOSQL, Stored Procedures, Functions for database layer by studying the required business objects and validating them with Stored Procedures using PostgreSQL. Also used JPA with hibernate provider. Used GIT to implement version control. Used log4j for tracking errors and debugging the code. Environment Java, ReactJS, Java Script, HTML, STRUTS, JUNIT, Servlets, JDBC, JQUERY, JSON, AJAX, DOM, Jenkins, HQL, Spring Boot, Selenium, JIRA, Hibernate, DB2, JPA, Eclipse, EJB, JMS, AngularJS, log4j, NOSQL. Client RGIS, Marietta, GA Dec13-Feb16 Role Full Stack Java Developer Description RGIS is the market leader in supply chain, inventory, insights, merchandising, and optimization solutions. The project involved in creating several new business components like order Fulfillment and internal purchase order etc. This project involved in writing several new DAO using hibernate for inventory database interaction and in automation scripting and building logging framework using Log4j. The main responsibilities was to co-ordinate development activities with Business analyst in an agile environment. Application was deployed on Web logic application server. Responsibilities Implemented RUP development process on Software Development Life Cycle and done with effort estimations using Function points 3p estimations. Used spring framework to inject services, entity services, transaction management, and concerns by factory class corresponding to the use case operation executing. Developed JSP, Ajax, jQuery for front-end design and page flows. Experienced in developing web-based applications using Java, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML and JavaScript. Involved in using spring concepts DIIOC, AOP, Batch implementation and Spring MVC. Implemented Declarative transaction management using Spring AOP. Developed Application front end using Spring Framework. Experience on implementing the AngularJS in creating single page applications for the client. Used React JS to make webpages rendering faster, instead of using ng-repeat in Angular JS used ngReact to achieve the same. Making sure react is flexible and provides hooks that allow you to interface with other libraries and frameworks Used spring JDBC Template to do CRUD operations with Database. Created WSDLs as per wire frames, UI pages generated client jars using JAX-WS. Used Jersey implementation for Restful web services. Work closely with the UI team and provide Restful APIs which deliver data in JSON format needed by the User Interface. Implemented REST web services for communication between web service client and service provider. Worked on implementation of Restful Web services for transmission of data. Defined rules using JRules that are defined for resources to show details on UI pages. Followed up with Business Analysts to create conditions business functions using JRules UI. Involved in writing extensive Unit tests and integration tests using JUNIT to thoroughly test the code and maintain high coverage area. Developed several REST web services which produces both XML and JSON to perform tasks, leveraged by both web and mobile applications. Analysis and Design of various modules using SOA and J2EE stack. Created the front end using JSP, HTML, XML, and advanced JavaScript. Used Oracle as backend. Provided support for user acceptance testing  performance testing. Involved in Web sphere server configurations, Data Sources, Connection Pooling, MQ Series Queues set up for messaging and deploying the apps on different servers in different environments like QAISTProduction. Involved in creating JUNIT test cases and ran the TEST SUITE using EMMA tool. Implemented client side validation in registration forms, login and logout forms using java Script. Extensively used JQUERY, JSON, AJAX and DOM scripting to create interactive web application like message posting Coded Tested and debugged Java code and Servlets using Eclipse. Used ActiveMQ messaging to set up communication between applications in ESB. And flows are created for JAX-WS and JAX-RS web services. Deployed Elastic Search cluster to serve non-front-end traffic, reducing the load on customer facing search infrastructure by millions of requests day. Development, testing Servlets and JSPs in the typical MVC Architecture. Configured and deployed web application in JBoss server using Maven. Implemented Test driven development TDD using Junit and Mockito. Involved in configuration and deployment of application on JBoss App Server. Use GitHub for code branching and merging when implementing new features. Worked on the SOA, RESTful, and consumed third party web services. Extensively used Maven to build the application. Used Log4j for logging and debugging. Environment Java 1.7, React Js,JavaScript, AngularJS, DOJO, HTML, XML, XML Schema, DOM, SAX, SQL, Tomcat, Ant, Linux, Clear Case, Informix, Spring MVC, Elastic Search, Hibernate, Ajax, JQuery, Backbone.js, JavaScript, GIT, Water fall methodology, Maven, Junit, Mockito, JBoss. Regions Bank, Birmingham, AL May11-Nov13 Role JavaJ2EE Developer Description The Apply Web Rewrite AWR application is part of Regions bank Credit Card application which includes juniper application legacy. The AWR application developed by Regions bank provides financing for customers applying through various partners such as APPLE, US AIRWAYS, SEARS. The AWR application is an enhanced customer Website used by various partners for applying Credit through an online secure channel. Responsibilities Worked as a Developer and involved in analysis of requirements, design, development, Unit and Integration testing. Involved in analyzing the user requirements and specifications for deciding the flex component needed to be developed and their interaction. Created POJO layer to facilitate the sharing of data between the front end and the J2EE business objects Used server side spring framework and Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping of the database structure created in Oracle, Involved in Hibernate configuration properties setup mapping files using generators, associations inheritance etc. Implemented Message Driven beans to develop the asynchronous mechanism to invoke the provisioning system when a new service request saved in the database used JSM for this. Transformed XML documents using XSL. Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and spring. Developed various components using Spring MVC, JSP and HTML. Involved in writing JSPs, JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content. Used WebLogic for Design, Development and Deployment of applications. Enhanced and optimized the functionality of Web UI using Rich Faces, JSF, AJAX, CSS, XHTML and JavaScript Used AJAX for the asynchronous communication to the server. Wrote scripts in UNIX to process the batch jobs on a scheduled basis. Have used Facade, Singleton, Factory Design patterns. Implemented Spring MVC framework for developing J2EE based web application. Used GOF Java J2EE design patterns. Used Business Delegate to maintain decoupling between presentation business layers. Used JPA with Hibernate provider. Involved in configuring web sphere variables, queues, DSs, servers and deploying EAR into Servers. Involved in developing the business Logic using Plain Old Java Objects POJOs and Session EJBs. Involved in Hibernate mappings, configuration properties set up, creating sessions, transactions and second level cache set up. Interact with Business Analyst and Host Subject Matter Experts SME to understand the requirements and for any clarifications required by the team, followed agile methodology and SCRUM meetings to track, optimize and features. Developed logging information using Log4j. Developed the application using Spring Framework that leverages classical Model View Layer MVC architecture. Developed hibernate DAO framework with spring framework. Extensively involved in developing core persistence classes using Hibernate framework, writing HQL queries, DB schema and PL SQL changes. Designed and implemented the presentation layer using Java Server Pages, tag libraries, and cascading style sheets CSS. Responsible for unit testing the application using JUnit. Used tortoiseSVN as the version control. Used JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking and project management. Used Jenkins for integrating the applications. Used UNIX scripting for file transferring. Deployment of application on JBOSS Application server in clustered environment, managing the server, monitoring the server logs. Environment Java 1.7, J2EE, CSS, Subversion, XML, JDBC 4.0, RAD, AJAX, JSF, jQuery, Intellij, XML Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, SAX, DOM, JAXB, Log4J, JUnit, Microsoft tools, Oracle 11g, PLSQL, Unix, Spring 4.1, Hibernate 4, JBoss, TOAD, JavaScript, Angular.Js, Node.js, Jersey, Junit, JIRA. Client  UMB Bank, Kansas, MO Nov09-Apr11 Role JavaJ2EE Developer Description The project deals with customer credit card system. Also helps customers to view their statements, search transactions, download statements, download transactions, view the recent transactions and can do the balance transfers online. The project Online Investment Service OIS was designed to facilitate trading in short term paper Mutual funds, Repos, CDs, Commercial Paper, CRA, and Time Deposits for high net worth corporate and individual customers. The system comprised Trading desks that were created internally logical entity to handle region specific customers and business entities namely Broker were created to provide an interface for the clients to place orders. Responsibilities Actively participated in requirements gathering, analysis, design, and testing phases. Extensively worked on IBM MQ using point-point, publishersubscriber messaging Domains for implementing Exchange of information through Messages. Utilized Hibernate Polymorphic many-to-one associations for the purpose of referring instances of subclasses and participated in design of data base and created tables in ORACLE. Involved in configuring web sphere variables, queues, DSs, servers and deploying EAR into Servers. Developed and debugged the application using Eclipse IDE. Involved in Hibernate mappings, configuration properties set up, creating sessions, transactions and second level cache set up. Involved in backing up database in creating dump files. And also creating DB schemas from dump files. Wrote developer test cases executed. Prepared corresponding scope traceability matrix. Ran check styles, PMD Defects, find bugs etc. and fixed them if there are any. Configured EMMA tool and ran test suite and made sure that 100 test coverage. Implemented Maven as build and configuration tool. Used Apache Tomcat Application Server for application deployment in the clustered window environment Used Tortoise SVN repository for version control. Implemented various J2EE Design patterns like Singleton, Service Locator, Business Delegate, DAO, Transfer Object, and SOA. Managed and Maintained Oracle Database in Production domain Worked on AJAX to develop an interactive Web Application and JavaScript for Data Validations. Used Subversion SVN to implement version control System. Created a deployment procedure utilizing Jenkins CI to run the Unit Tests, build Documentation using Natural Docs and create packages for installation and setup the application and its dependencies. Used Maven to build the application and used Log4J for debugging. Worked in Spring AOP Interceptors in logging and auditing. Experienced in the installation, support, configuration and maintenance of WebLogic server. Worked in development of applications using Java and used multithreading for group post enrollment validation. Developed the code and deployed on the WebSphere Web Application server server. Worked in RDBMS implementation using SQL, PLSQL on Oracle database. Environment Java, J2SE, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, JSON, HTML, Oracle 10g, JQuery, JSON, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Node.js, web sphere, SQL, PLSQL, XML, XSL, Eclipse, Spring web flow, Ajax, Rest web service. Dream Soft IT Solutions, India. Aug08-Oct09 Role Software Developer Description Dream Soft IT Solutions is known for Customize Solutions Development in the fields of Software Solutions, Web Based Solutions, Industrial Automation, Search Engine, and Web Hosting Solutions as their major categories of Business. Responsibilities Designed and implemented Java Classes, Interfaces, Model design, and interface layer design with other team members. Developed JSPs and Servlets to dynamically generate HTML and display the data to the client side. Extensively used JSP tag libraries. Involved in writing services to write core logic for business processes. Involved in writing database queries, stored procedures, functions etc. Used Java J2EE design patterns. Involved in client server side validations. Involved in writing JDBC code to get data base connectivity. Implemented server side validations and developed model classes. Involved in the Database structuring and Tables creation needed for the project. Instrumental in tuning the framework to meet the performance standards. Designed and developed web-based software using STRUTS MVC Framework. Used AJAX and Java Script to handle asynchronous requests, and CSS was used to keep uniformly in look of the application. EJBs in the application and developed Sessionbeans for the business logic at the middle tier level. Created Test plan documents and testing using Junit Framework. Used JAXB parser for parsing valid .xml files as defined by XSD. Created and modified Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers Complex SQL Commands for the application using PLSQL. Monitored the error logs using Log4j and fixed the problems. Designed JDBC Connection for data retrieval and updating purpose, also developed connection pool to avoid waiting time for database connection. Used Tomcat server for application development with Eclipse. Environment Core Java, JDBC, JAXB, WSDL, Rest, JSP, Servlet, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Apache Tomcats, MySQL, STRUTS, Log4j, XSD.