Shelly Woods 201 203-3169 Shelly.woodshrmediary.com Professional Summary 10 years of professional experience in IT on JAVA, JEE including 2 years of hands on experience in Big Data, Hadoop Ecosystem Components. Expertise in developing application with financial domain, using Enterprise Technologies pertaining to Core Java 1.8 , JEE , Servlets 2.22.3, JSP 2.0, Struts 2.0, Hibernate 3.0, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring Boot Hibernate, JMS,XML, JDBC 2.0, JNDI, JAXP ,JAXB, Web Logic ,Web Sphere and Tomcat. Experience in Web Services using XML, HTML, SOAP and REST API. Solid background in Object Oriented Analysis  Design, Development and Implementation of Client ServerWebEnterprise development using n-tier architecture knowledge of Angular JS practices ,Creating custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of core Angular JS Strong experience creating real time data streaming solutions using Apache Spark Core, Spark SQL  Data Frames, Spark Streaming In depth knowledge of Hadoop Architecture and YARN Experience in writing Map Reduce programs using Apache Hadoop for analyzing Big Data. Hands on experience in writing Ad-hoc Queries for moving data from HDFS to HIVE and analyzing the data using HIVE QL. Experience in importing and exporting data using Sqoop from Relational Database Systems to HDFS. Experience in writing Hadoop Jobs for analyzing data using Pig Latin. Working Knowledge in NoSQL Databases like HBase. Integrated Apache Kafka for data ingestion Experience in using Apache Flume for collecting, aggregating and moving large amounts of data from application servers. Experience in using Zookeeper and Oozie Operational Services for coordinating the cluster and scheduling workflows. Extensive experience with SQL, PLSQL, Shell Scripting and database concepts. Experience in using version control management tools like CVS, SVN and Rational Clear Case. Highly motivated, self-starter with a positive attitude, willingness to learn new concepts and acceptance of challenges. Ability to work independently and with a group of peers in a results-driven environment. Strong analytical and problem solving skills. Ability to take initiative and learn emerging technologies and programming languages Education M.C.A Master of Computer Applications from Osmania University, 2006. B.S.C Computer Science from Kakatiya University, 2003. Technical Skills Professional Experience Client ATT, USA April 2017-Persent. Title Senior Analytical Hadoop  Spark Developer ECOMP is critical in achieving ATTs D2 imperatives to increase the value of our network to customers by rapidly on-boarding new services created by ATT or 3rd parties, enabling the creation of a new ecosystem of cloud consumer and enterprise services, reducing Capital and Operational Expenditures, and providing Operations efficiencies. It delivers enhanced customer experience by allowing them in near real time to reconfigure their network, services, and capacity. While ECOMP does not directly support legacy physical elements, it works with traditional OSSs to provide a seamless customer experience across both virtual and physical elements. ECOMP enables network agility, elasticity, and improves Time-to-MarketRevenueScale via the ATT Service Design and Creation ASDC visual modeling and design. The service design and creation capabilities and policy recipes eliminate many of the manual and long running processes performed via traditional OSSs e.g., break-fix largely moves to plan and build function. The ECOMP platform provides external applications OSSBSS, customer apps, and 3rd party integration with a secured, RESTful API access control to ECOMP services. Responsibilities Developed Spark scripts by using Scala shell commands as per the requirement. Used Spark API over Cloudera Hadoop YARN to perform analytics on data in Hive. Developed Scala scripts, UDFFs using both Data framesSQL and RDDMapReduce in Spark for Data Aggregation, queries and writing data back into OLTP system through Sqoop. Experienced in performance tuning of Spark Applications for setting right Batch Interval time, correct level of Parallelism and memory tuning. Loaded the data into Spark RDD and do in memory data Computation to generate the Output response. Optimizing of existing algorithms in Hadoop using Spark Context, Spark-SQL, Data Frames and Pair RDDs. Involved in loading data from Oracle database into HDFS using Sqoop queries. Responsible for building scalable distributed data solutions using Hadoop. Developed Map Reduce pipeline jobs to process the data and create necessary HFiles. Developed Pig Latin scripts for data cleansing. Environment HDFS, Hive, HBase, Spark Core, Spark SQL, Spark Streaming, Scala, SBT 0.13, Oozie, kafka-0.9.0, Apache NiFi ,Java jdk1.7  1.8 , UNIX, SVN and Zookeeper, JEE, JSP, JSTL, Spring 2.5, Oracle 11g10g,Maven, REST-ful Web Services, Apache Axis2, LINUX, Tomcat7,GIt,Jenikins. Client American Express, USA August 2016-March2017. Title Senior JavaHadoop Developer Project Description American Express Company is a global travel, financial and network service provider. The company provides individuals with charge and credit cards. In CCSG we build new application pages for the given cards ChargeCredit. Enables prospect to apply for personal cards. Prospect has an option to apply for a personal card through various channels. Long Application User is not an American Express card holder and wants to apply for a new card. Short Application If already a card member, has an option to apply for new cards, with a difference that user is asked to fill in minimal details Responsibilities Involved in writing MAVEN project, primary responsibilities include development of web application using spring MVC and Hibernate to pull queries from oracle Involved in loading data from Oracle database into HDFS using Sqoop queries. Responsible for building scalable distributed data solutions using Hadoop. Developed Map Reduce pipeline jobs to process the data and create necessary HFiles. Developed Pig Latin scripts for data cleansing. Worked with different File Formats like TEXTFILE, AVROFILE for HIVE querying and processing. Developed PIG UDFS for manipulating the data according to Business Requirements and also worked on developing custom PIG Loaders. I have successfully written Spark Streaming application to read streaming twitter data and analyze twitter records in real time using Yardstick framework to measure performance of Apache Ignite Streaming and Apache Spark Streaming. Using Apache Nifi to Stream data Feeds to Kafka. Involved in writing MAVEN project, primary responsibilities include development of web application using spring MVC and Hibernate to pull queries from oracle. Implemented test cases for Spark using Scala as language. Environment Hadoop, Map Reduce, HDFS, Hive, HBase, Spark Core, Spark SQL, Spark Streaming, Scala, SBT 0.13, Oozie, kafka-0.9.0, Apache NiFi ,Java jdk1.7  1.8 , UNIX, SVN and Zookeeper, JEE, JSP, JSTL, Spring 2.5, Oracle 11g10g,Maven, REST-ful Web Services, SOAP, Apache Axis2, LINUX, Tomcat7 Client United Overseas Bank, Singapore September 2014- August 2016 Title Tech Lead JavaHadoop Description UOB, The Power Lender CE is a loan origination system supporting all kinds of loans. The Main objective of this project is to build an interface to interact with External Fraud Detection System for both Secured and Unsecured Loans. This system consists of two basic modules such as Secured Loans are mortgage loans, housing loans or any loan that is availed form the bank on providing some security or collateral. Unsecured Loans are credit cards, personal loans, vehicle loans or any loan that is availed from the bank without any security. Responsibilities Collaborated with the Business Intelligence team to understand the high level data roadmap and define data discovery priorities. Installed and configured Hadoop-1.0.2 Map Reduce, HDFS, and developed multiple Map Reduce jobs in Java for data cleaning and preprocessing. Analyzed Hadoop cluster using the big data analytical tools such as Pig, Hive, Scoop and Flume. Collected and aggregated large amounts of web log data from different sources such as web servers, mobile and network devices using Apache Flume and stored the data into HDFS for analysis. Developed optimal strategies for distributing the web log data over the cluster, importing and exporting the stored web log data into HDFS and Hive using Scoop. Involved in creating Hive tables, loading millions of records of the stored log data and writing queries that will invoke and run the Map Reduce jobs in the backend. Transformed large sets of semi-structured and unstructured data in various formats, to extract parameters such as user location, age, spending time etc. Analyzed the web log data using Hive to calculate metrics such as number of unique visitors, page views, etc. Exported the analyzed data to relational databases using Sqoop for visualization and generating reports. Designed efficient high-performing applications to extract, transform, load, and query very large datasets, including unstructured data. Installed Apache Oozie workflow engine to run multiple Hive and Pig jobs independently with time and data availability. Modelled user behavior based upon previous findings and most relevant data available, and contributed to the development of tools for tracking and understanding user behavior. Worked on Hive joins to produce the input data set. Environment Hadoop, Map Reduce, HDFS, Hive, Oracle 11g10g, HBase, Spark Core, Spark SQL, Spark Streaming, Scala, SBT 0.13 ,Oozie, Java jdk1.6, UNIX, SVN and Zookeeper,Java, J2EE, JSP, JSTL, AngularJS, Spring 2.5,Maven, REST-ful Web Services, SOAP, Apache Axis2, LINUX, Tomcat7,Maven Universal Weather  Aviation. July 2010 - August 2014 Title Senior Java Developer Description The application will provide enhanced electronic versions of Universals product UVTripPlanner. It will provide search facility for ground services and airport data. This is the web application provides information about weather and aviation details for registered users across the globe. User can get the data to every single airport includes airport address, frequencies, customs, and services available for different types of aircrafts. Responsibilities Used Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project. Developed application using Struts, spring and Hibernate. Developed rich user interface using JavaScript, JSTL, CSS, JQuery and JSPs. Developed custom tags for implementing logic in JSPs. Used Java script, JQuery, JSTL, CSS and Struts 2 tags for developing the JSPS. Involved in making release builds for deploying the application for test environments. Used Oracle database as backend database. Wrote SQL to update and create database tables. Used Eclipse as IDE. Using RIDC Interface get content details and Create Content through application. Used Spring IOC for injecting the beans. Used Hibernate for connecting to the database and mapping the entities by using hibernate annotations. Created JUnit test cases for unit testing application. Writingintegration JSP communicating to spring controller and passing query criteria to hibernate to pull data and showing reports based on searches both on web gui and streaming data into excel . Involved in writing MAVEN project, primary responsibilities include development of web application using spring MVC and Hibernate to pull queries from oracle. Development Tools are Maven, Spring MVC,Hibernate AppserversIwebserversTomcat7 Used JUNIT and JMOCK for unit testing. Environment J2EE1.6, JSP, JSTL, Ajax, Spring 2.5, Struts 2.0, Ajax, Hibernate 3.2,JDBC, JNDI,XML, XSLT, Web Services, WSDL, Log4j, ORACLE 11g, Oracle Web logic Server 10.3, SVN, Windows XP, UML. Honeywell December 2009- July 2010 Java Developer Description The Honeywell_AP process covers processing of all vendor related payments for clients, which includes processing of invoices, credit notes and payment requests etc. On an overall basis, timely and accurate payments with complete controllership and diligent customer service are the required deliverables of AP Responsibilities Involved in the requirements gathering. Design, Development, Unit testing and Bug fixing. Used Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project. Involved in development of GUI for Client Using Java Swing Development using Java1.6, Java swing worker also developed the entire online help for the application system using the Java help system, the application had perspectives for views to support multiple tab Components in the UI, it was packaged as a web start build. Involved in creating ant scripts for the Jnlp files to update client builds for the Usability tests. Worked with Generics using Java1.6 and some other open source tools to build the C2C1M Client like, Table Layout, Jakarta P01etc, Worked with JDIC Java Desktop integration Components components to embed a web browser displaying HTML in a Java window. Worked on JMS to publish and subscribe to topics messages downstream to update legacy data using IBM MQ series. CreatedConfigured Hibernate mapping classes, 1-Hibernate configuration files XML files to use the Hibernate frame work to update or view Database records, also created Criteria Queries to retrieve data from the Database. Developed RMT servers of client and server could communicate for data updates and retrievals. The combination of hibernate with RMI was simple and perfect solution for concurrency issues. Software Development Methodology used to develop the project was Agile Methodology with small scrum teams.Connected client to web service JAXRPC to retrieve data and d display for central storage, the application was developed over lie spring framework. Worked on writingupdating ANT scripts while creating web archive filesenterprise archive files the jars were signed to maintain security for the systems. Built high performance java servers and used maven for buildingpackaging. Design of the Client side of the application using Java swing 1.6 using the JSR296 application framework. Collaborating with analysis team to review the developed UI and packagingdeployment the application for UAT and SIT using java web start build techniques. Development tools JavaSwing,Intellijidea,YourKit Profiler Application server Websphere Server technology RMI Remote Method Invocation, Hibernate. Version ControlClearcase Special tools JDIC, Table Layout opensourceswings layout, Glazed Lists, lntelliJ IDEA, Your Kit Java Profiler to clear memory leaks in the clientserver code, Deadlocks P0I Apache for exporting to excel from the GUI tables, hibernate.. Environment J2EE1.6, JSP, JSTL, Ajax, Spring 2.5, Struts 2.0, Ajax, Hibernate 3.2,JDBC, JNDI,XML, XSLT, Web Services, WSDL, Log4j, ORACLE 11g, Oracle Web logic Server 10.3, SVN, Windows XP, UML, Sterling Commerce Distributed Order ManagementDOM. Specialty Planners Inc November 2007- December 2009 JavaJ2EE Developer Description Specialty Planners Inc. is an Insurance Agency sales company that sells Long Term Care LTC products of various Insurance companies called Carriers and gets commission for the business done, from the Carriers. Agents are recruited and trained by Specialty Planners to do business for the Carriers and the Carrier takes agent into contract. Specialty Planners supplies leads prospect customer information to its Agents via AIMS IC online application for doing business. The main objective of the AIMS application is that provides support and management for the Specialty Planners business. The system will allow Specialty Planners to operate efficiently and support brokerage business model and third party administration business. Responsibilities Involved in Unit Testing of the Application. Developed the JSPs and Modeling data using MVC architecture. Involved in designing front-end screens. Documenting daily weekly status report and sending to client Implemented the Servlets and JSP components Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping and data persistence. Developed the Database interaction classes using JDBC. Created JUnit test cases and ANT scripts for build automation. Environment Java, J2EE 1.4, HTML, XML, JDBC, JMS, Servlets, JSP 1.2, Struts 1.2, Hibernate, Web services, Eclipse 3.3, Web Sphere 7, Oracle 9i, ANT, Microsoft Visio.