SOUGANDH A sougandh.workgmail.com 515 635 4931 PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY Over 8 years of professional experience in designing, developing and testing internetintranet Web-based applications, Enterprise applications using J2EE Architecture, Core Java concepts. Experience working with Software Development Life Cycle SDLC methodologies-Agile,Waterfall Model. Expertise in using Object Oriented ProgrammingOOPS Principles and Design patterns like Singleton, Factory Pattern, Prototype, Business Delegate, Session Facade, Service locator, Observer, Decorator, Front Controller and DAO pattern. . Extensive experience in Core Java concepts like Exception handling, Multi-threading, Synchronization, Serialization, IO, Collections framework, EnterpriseJava Beans. Expertise in development of web and enterprise-level applications using Spring, Hibernate, Struts framework, EJB, Servlets. Experienced in Middleware persistence framework like HibernateJPA for mapping Java classes with database using HQL. Implemented based on corresponding view components with view components HTML5, CSS3, XSD, XSTL. Experienced in Front End frameworks such as jQuery, Ajax, JavaScript, Node.js, ReactJS, AngularJS, Angular2,ExtJs. Proficient in Client Side Validations, Client-server data Interaction with Ajax in Node.js, Back bone.JS. Hands on experience in developing and solid understanding of Micro-Services Architecture, Service Oriented ArchitectureSOA and Test-Driven Development. Extensively used different Tag Libraries likeStruts Tags, JSTL, Spring Tags, Display Tag, XMLXSD. Experienced in frameworks Spring MVC, Jakarta Struts framework, JSF, Spring and Hibernate. Experience with Spring MVC, IOC, AOP, Spring JDBC, Spring JTA, Spring IO, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Microservices, Spring Ribbon, Spring Netflix, Spring Zuul, Spring Eureka withThymeleaf,Pivotal Cloud Foundry. Experience in Spring Security for User Access Management and LDAP configuration for authentication, authorization. Developed applications using latest technologies like EJB3.0, Spring2.x3.x4.x, Hibernate3.24.x, and REST based Web services axis2.0, JAX WS2.0, Rules Engines Drools4.1, ILOG, XML API and tools. Experienced in Distributed Transaction Management system with Spring JTA based on Atomikos. Experience in configuring and deploying the applications on Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic, and JBoss Servers. Experienced in developing UNIXshell scripts for batch processing. Good Knowledge on Apache Storm which is used for real-time Stream processing and end-to-end delivery response. Developed SQL queries, procedures, Triggers and Stored Procedures in databases such as Oracle, DB2 and MySQL. Experienced in working on modern MEAN Stack- MongoDB, Express.JS, AngularJSand NodeJS. Experienced in working with multiple databases like Oracle 1011g, SQL Server, MySQL, DB2, NOSQL DB mongo Cassandra and Cache database, involved in converting CassandraSQL queries to Spark transformations using Spark RDDs. Developed multiple POCs using Scalaand deployed on the Yarn cluster, performance of Spark, with Cassandra and SQL. Hands on experience with Play Framework MVC model, Object relational mapping tools like slick. Good experience in using Amazon Web Services AWS and AWS SNSSQS for delivering messages. Experienced in AWS, EC2 Container ServicesDocker, VPC with Security Groups, S3, IAM, SNS, Lambda, Route53, CloudWatchetc Services. Experience in on AWS CloudDevOps, Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery CICD pipeline, Build and Release management, LinuxWindows administration and support. Developed microservices using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring AOP, Dependency Injection and JPA Experience in upgrading and migrating various versions of Mongo DB on different platforms. Experienced in performing unit testing using JUnit, integration and deployment of applications using tools such as ANT and Maven debugging through log4j. Experience in JUnit frame work with Mockito and Easy mock, SpringJunitRunner. Experienced in Development, testing and deployment of enterprise applications on WindowsUNIX platforms using IDEs such as Eclipse, Rational Application Developer RAD, Netbeans, intellij 14.x15.x Experience in using different version controllingtracking systems SVN, CVS, GIT, and Rational Clear Case. Good Knowledge in Apache Active MQ Series with Camel most widely used as service bus. Experience with Streaming platforms like Apache Kafka. Good Understandingon Azure which is mostly used as Service bus and used Azure tobuild, deploy and manage the application through the global network through the datacenters. Experienced in Full stack front end technologies using Grunt js, Glup Server, Yoman generator for Angular, Vue JS. Expertise in Selenium automation using Selenium WebDriver, Selenium Grid, JAVA, JUnitPowerMonk. Performed Integration and deployment of applications done using tools such as ANT, Maven and Gradle. Maintained the Selenium  JAVA automation code and resources in source controls like CVS, SVN over the time for improvements and new features. TECHNICAL SKILLS PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Responsibilities Actively involved in mock screens development and project start-up phase. Efficiently managed the tasks and working and delivering features in a fast-paced scrum environment Experience working in Agile development following SCRUM process, Sprint and daily stand-up meetings. Involved in developing the UI, layout and front-end programming for web application that matches requirements of the client. Developed UI Layer for the application using HTML5, CSS3, Angular 2 and Bootstrap. Written code on Typescript and ES6 to implement Angular 2 Components and worked on different changed procedures of AngularJS to Angular 2.0. Followed Java  J2EE design patterns and the coding guidelines to design and develop the application. Worked with advanced MVC framework such as Spring-IOC, AOP, MVC, Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Heroku, Spring Security, Spring Integration, Spring Eureka, Spring Netflixand Batch which is used for implementing backend functionality. Extensively used various Spring Framework modules like MVC, Auto Wiring, Spring Security, and AOP. Created and injected spring services, spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes. Participated in coding Spring AOP components for the Logging, Exception handling and Transactional Model to handle many requests. Used advanced java 8 features like Lambda expressions for array operations, collections and Enhanced concurrency methods etc. throughout the application for well-defined programming. Worked with Java 8 Lambda for adding functionality processing capability and Stream API to facilitate pipeline processing and used Filter method to eliminate elements based on the criteria. Used Hibernate, objectrelational-mapping ORM solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with SQL-based schema. Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions, and Hibernate cache concepts. Involved in development of new functionality of WebSphere commerce, Java, J2EE and WebSphere MQ. Wrote SQL queries, stored procedures and enhanced performance by running explain plans. Designed and developed Microservices using REST framework. Developed Microservices using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring AOP, Dependency Injection. Developed Microservices to communicate using synchronous protocols HTTP and REST for implementingSOA. Deployed Spring Boot MicroservicesDocker container using Amazon EC2 container services and AWS admin console. Utilized AWS Lambda platform to upload data into AWS S3 bucket and to trigger other Lambda functions. Used a Microservice architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers. Implemented Authentication  Authorization with Site Minder and spring security. Analysed current legacy infrastructure, established business case, and built consensus for virtualized IaaS  PaaS near term strategy with SaaSmobile cloud services end state. Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, pushing images, integration ofSpring boot. Upgraded the swagger to new version while maintaining the look and functionality of the UI. Hands on experience with MongoDB Installation, Configuring, Monitoring and Designing Shared Environment. Developed Kafkaconsumers to consume data from Kafkatopics. Produced as well as consumed RESTfulweb services using Jersey APIs. Developed Maven scripts and developed builds using Maven and continuous integration servers like Jenkins. Fixed defects identified during QA, UAT and Production. Written highly referenced blog posts on Error Handling in Scala and Problems Scala Fixes. Done with Web logic application server set up  deployed the application on it. Involved in CICD process using GIT, Jenkins job creation, Maven build and publish, and Fabric implementation Involved in deploying the application in UNIX and to connect to see logs for fixing UATProduction defects. Developed, executed and maintained Selenium automation scripts for web application. Hands on experience JBOSS DROOLS, Guvnor, writing Business rules, Decision Tables, Agenda Filter, Knowledge Base, and JBPM. Develop custom app configurations deployment-apps within SPLUNK to Parse, Index multiple types of log format across all application environment. Created continuous integration builds using AntJenkins and deployed on WebSphere app server. Worked on automation platforms like Ansible. Deployed Application instance on JBoss Server. EnvironmentWeb Services, Spring 4.x, Hibernate 4.x, HTML5, JSP,JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, GWT,CSS3, Angular 2,RESTful,XML, WSDL, Java1.8, J2EE,Scala, Kafka, Agile Methodology, JIRA processes,GIT,Design Patterns, PLSQL, Junit, WebSphere MQ, Amazon Elastic Beanstalk, S3,Maven, Eclipse IDE,, Apache Kafka, MongoDB, Docker, CVS. Responsibilities Designed and developed code for Exchange project using the Java EE platform. Actively involved in Analysis, Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing. Successfully followed agile methodology in the Scrum Cycle model. Used Java-J2EE patterns like Model View Controller MVC, Business Delegate, Data Transfer Objects, Data Access Objects, factory patterns. Designed and developed the End Points Controllers, Business Layer, DAO Layer using Hibernate and Spring IOC Dependency Injection. Extensively used MVC, Factory, Delegate and Singleton design patterns. Implemented SOA to develop REST Based Web services using Apache Axis. Developed REST Web Services clients to consume those Web Services as well other enterprise wide Web Services. Designed and Developed Presentation Tier using Spring MVC and JSP integrating Custom Tags, JSTL, JSP Expression Language and AJAX. Used Hibernate framework for back end development and Spring dependency injection for middle layer development Used Spring MVC Transaction Management, SpringHibernate Batch Transactions and Hibernate cache concepts. Modified the Spring Controllers and Services classes so as to support the introduction of spring framework. Used Spring Framework AOP Module to implement logging in the application to know the application status. Worked on Spring Quartz, form based authentication with Cross-Site Request Forgery CSRF token and secured REST endpoints with HTTP Basic authentication Worked on Spring Quartz functionality for scheduling tasks such as generating monthly reports for customers and sending those mails about different policies. Deployed Spring Boot based micro services Docker container using Amazon EC2 container services and using AWS admin console. Used DAO pattern to fetch data from database using Hibernate to carry out various database. Developed various generic JavaScript functions used for validations. Developed Application to asses JSON and XMl from Restful web service from consumer side using AngularJS. Used Spring Inheritance to develop beans from already developed parent beans. Designed and Implemented REST web services using JAX-RS, Spring REST. Used Java Message Service JMS for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information for status report. Wrote AngularJS services to consume Restful web service to load data. Integrated the Java code API in JSP pages and responsible for setting upAngularJS framework for UI development. Worked with Swing and RCP using Oracle ADF to develop a search application which is a migration project. Wrote Scala classes to interact with the database. Used Source Tree for Git Subversion tool. Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions, and Hibernate cache concepts. Defined MultiAction, AbstractWizardForm and SimpleForm Controllers using Spring MVC framework providing very clean division between controllers, flexibility with the use of interfaces and providing thin web layer over business layer. Developed screens using JSP, JavaScript, AJAX and Ext JS. Developed entire user interface using various Ext JS components like Form panels, Tab panels, View port and Editable grids. Used JENKINS to build and deploy the code in Dev and SIT environments. Deployed the application Code to various Remediation engines using JENKINS. Used AJAX extensively to implement front end user interface features in the application. Implemented SOA to develop Web services using Apache Axis. Developed Web Services clients to consume those Web Services as well other enterprise wide Web Services. Exposed the Web Services to the client applications by sharing the WSDLs. Developed unit test cases using Mockito framework for testing accuracy of code and logging is done using SLF4j  Log4j. Managed and maintained NoSQL MongoDB databases in production domain. Focused on Test Driven Development TDD thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before actually writing the functionality. Extensively worked on TOAD for interacting with data base, developing the stored procedures and promoting SQL changes to QA and Production Environments. Used Apache Maven for project management and building the application Environment JavaJ2EE, Spring 3.x, Hibernate 4.x, Angular JS, HTML, XML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript,Restful, GIT, MAVEN, Mongo DB, Application Server 7.0, WID 6.1.2, Rational Application Developer 7.5, Web Services, Apache Axis, Scala, Agile Methodology, JAXB, JSP, RAD. Responsibilities Involved in various SDLC phases like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development and the project was developed using Agile based SCRUM Methodology. Implemented Struts Framework and Hibernate in the new version of the Application. Involved in coding for the presentation layer using Struts and JavaScript. Used JSP, Struts and Java script libraries like Backbone and Jquery to develop the User Interface. Developed Action classes, Dyna Action Forms and used Validation framework. Developed XML application using XSLT transformations. Involved in developing the User interfaces using HTML, CSS3, JSP and java script. Created the view pages UI using JSP and JavaScript JQuery. Implemented Marionette which is a composite application library for Backbone.js in order to simplify the large scale JavaScriptapplications. Extensively used Java Scripts to enforce client side validations and also used JQuery for Ajax processing. Involved in development maintenance of various web services using IBM Websphere to interact with other applications. Implemented the XSLT templates to apply the access to the tabs modules based on the logged in user role. Developed multiple tools including Site Scanning tool, Report Analyzer tool used for site scanning and report generating. Wrote various selectupdateinsertSQL queries and stored procedures for Sql Server. Successfully executing offshore modeling by effective and on time knowledge sharing with offshore projectgroups through weekly team meetings and daily status update calls. Used collections interface to provide a dynamic user interface. Handled Java multi threading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user, which servesthat user. Gained hand-on development experience with Linux environment and Tomcat server Built single page application using Angular JS. Worked on EXT JS for Rich Web Application. Involved in unit testing, troubleshooting and debugging. Modifying programs with enhancements. Involved in fixing bugs the bugs or defects in the application. Developed the UNIX shell scripts to automate jobs. Used JMS for asynchronous communication between different modules. Involved in consuming, producing SOAP based web services using JAX-WS. Implemented SOAP over HTTP and SOAP over JMS communication. Worked as the part of a core team to monitor and enhance the performance of the application. Provide guidance and direction to team members in their day-to-day activities. Environment Jakarta Struts Framework 2.0, Core Java, Hibernate 3.0, Web Services, CSS, eclipse Helios, CVS, Web Sphere Application Server 7.0, UnixLinux, AWS, JUnit, HTML 4, CSS, Angular JS, BackBone JS, JSON, UNIX, JavaScript, Servlets, Ext JS,JSP, SOAP, JDBC, JQuery, PLSQL. Responsibilities Involved in Object analysis, design and documentation OOAD of the application model using UML. Involved in development of the application using Spring Web MVC and other components of the Spring Framework, the controller being Spring Core. Also implemented Dependency Injection using the Spring IOC framework. Designed and developed User Interface, application modules using Wicket pages, Spring, JavaBeans, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX. Designed and developed interactive static HTML screens as screen level prototype, JavaScript for client side validation. Designed Service Adapter using Adapter Service Interface ASI framework to interact with mobile devices. Developed Action controller, Action Forms, Tiles Structure, Validation Form Beans, AJAX code, JavaScript and worked on integration. Used Cascading Style Sheet CSS for designing the web pages. Implementation and maintenance of a Java GUI application using JSF components. Extensive use of JSF Framework for Controller components and View components. Involved in transforming service response to JSON Response for the use of mobile device Apps. Used Spring Web component for support of web utilities. Used JSON Lint to validate JSON request and response parameters. Used XPath for selecting nodes from an XML document. Designed and built new SOAP web service interface implemented in Java using Apache SOAP Used AJAX to support dynamic page element rendering to enhance user experience. Used SVN as Version Control to check-in and checkout Data. Implemented Design Patterns like MVC, Session Facade, Factory, and DAO. Involved in component development and used design patterns such as Singleton, Factory and Data Access Object DAO in the implementation of the application. Used Spring Context for EJB Support and Spring DAO for enhanced JDBC and DAO support. Created Stored procedures using PLSQL for data modification Using DML insert, update, delete in Oracle. Used Spring ORM component for Hibernate support for manipulating data for Oracle 10g. Environment Java 1.6, J2EE 5, EJB 3.0, Spring Framework, Apache Wicket, Adapter Service InterfaceASI framework, HTML, JavaScript, JSF, XHTML, DHTML, JSON, JSON Lint, UML, IBM WebSphere 6.5 application server, Rational Rose, IBM Rational Software Architect, SVN, ANT and Oracle. Responsibilities Designed Use Case and Sequence Diagrams according to UML standard using Rational Rose. Implemented Model View Controller MVC-2 architecture and developed Form classes, Action Classes for the entire application using Struts Framework. Performed client side validations using JavaScript and server side validations using in built Struts Validation Framework. Implemented the data persistence functionality of the application by using Hibernate to persist java objects to the relational database. Used Hibernate Annotations to reduce time at the configuration level and accessed Annotated bean from Hibernate DAO layer. Used HQL statements and procedures to fetch the data from the database. Transformed, Navigated and Formatted XML documents using XSL, XSLT. Used JMS for asynchronous exchange of message by applications on different platforms. Developed the view components using JSP, HTML, StrutsLogictags and Strutstaglibraries. Involved in designing and implementation of Session Facade, Business Delegate, Service Locator patterns to delegate request to appropriate resources. Involved in developing SQL queries, stored procedures, and functions. Creation of database objects like tables, views using oracle tools like Toad, and SQL plus. Involved in writing Stored Procedure in using PLSQL. Worked on Linux environment for jobs scheduling forInbound data on monthly basis. Used JUnit Testing Framework for performing Unit testing. Deployed application in WebSphereApplication Server and developed using Rational Application Developer RAD. Environment Struts 2.0, Hibernate 3.0, JSP, RAD, JMS, CVS, JavaScript,, XSL, XSLT, Servlets 2.5, Websphere Application Server 6.1, Oracle 10g. Responsibilities Web based search console for all products Attractive common look  feel, components on IE, Firefox browsers Single query initiates search across all products. Searching is done very fast in milliseconds. Combines all results from all terminals and presented to user. Developed presentation screens by using JSP, HTML and JavaScript. Developed Session beans for functionality as per the requirement. Prepared Unit test cases for existing functionality as per the requirement and execute the same. Created dynamic XSL to transform XML to target platform language, HTML. Involved in the Integration testing support and involved in bug fixing. Responsible for writing detail design documents and class diagrams and sequence diagrams. Used different Design patterns like MVC pattern, DAO pattern, and singleton to achieve clean separation of layers. Involved in Core Java coding by using Java APIs such as Collections, Multithreading, Exception Handling, Generics, Enumeration, and Java IO to fulfill the implementation of business logic. Developed Custom tag libraries to separate presentation and processing logic. Deployment of .ear files in Tomcat server. Worked on Hibernate persistence tier. This involves developing mapping files and Hibernate POJOs DAOs Used Lo4j debugging tool to monitor the Error Logs. Involved in developing SQL queries, stored procedures, and functions. Involved in tracking and resolving Production issues. EnvironmentServlets 2.5, JSP 2.1, Eclipse, JDBC, JavaScript, HTML, Oracle, PLSQL, SVN, Hibernate 3.0 and Apache Tomcat EDUCATION Bachelors in Computer Science from KoneruLakshmaiahUniversity09- India.