Sivanaga G 571-346-2112 sivagatigantigmail.com PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE 8 years of experience in development and implementation of Web-based Client-Server applications using Java and J2EE technologies. Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle SDLC and familiarity of Service Oriented Architecture SOA. Proficient in OOAD Technologies developing Use Cases, Activity diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Class diagrams using case tools like Microsoft Visio and Rational Rose. Experience in developing Web based GUIs using JSP, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript and its frameworks like JSON, Action Script, DOJO,Node JS, Angular JS, JQuery, EXT JS and Ajax. Used JavaScript for client side validations and implemented AJAX with JavaScript for reducing data transfer overhead between user and server. Expertise in application development using JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, Spring, Hibernate, JSF, EJB2.03.0, XML, Web Services- SOAP, WSDL. Experience with Databases like Oracle, IBM DB2, MYSQL,Lucene, Elastic Search, JVM Tuning, ETL, SQL SERVER, JDBC etc. Expertise in XML and related technologies like XSL, XSLT, XPATH and parsers like JAXP SAX, DOM and JAXB. Expertise in implementing Web services and JMS for the synchronous and asynchronous communications between two applications running in different servers. Expertise in designing and developing enterprise applications using J2EE technologies like EJB2.13.0, Struts 1.22.0,Spring 3.0 and 4.0, JDBC, JNDI,JMS,JAXB, SAXDOM, Web services. Expertise in design patterns including Front Controller, Data Access Object, Session Facade, Business Delegate, Service Locator, MVC, Data Transfer Object and Singleton. Good experience in Spring modules like Spring AOP, DAD etc. Implementing Spring aspects for logging cross cutting concern. Strong working experience Object Relational ORM mapping tools like Hibernate Hibernate Connection Pooling, HQL, Hibernate Caching, Transactions. Automate report generation in Mongodb using java script and shell scripting Experienced in the functional usage and deployment of applications in JBoss, Web Logic, Web Sphere and Apache Tomcat. Expertise in Web Services architecture in SOAP and WSDL using JAX-RPC. Expertise in XML and related technologies like XSL, XSLT and parsers like JAXP SAX, DOM and JAXB Experience in Database Design, Creation and management of Schemas, writing Stored Procedures, functions, Triggers, DDL, DML SQL queries. Experience in writing SQL and PLSQL programming. Involved in building and deploying Apache ANT MAVEN scripts for deployment and customizing WAR JAR file management for web applications. Well experienced in using JUnit for performing unit-testing framework. Extensive experience in testing on multiple operating systems including UNIX, Sun Solaris, and Windows. Experience in developing crystal reports. Worked on Apache Lucene project. Its major features include full-text search, hit highlighting, faceted search, real-time indexing, dynamic clustering, database integration, NoSQLfeatures1 and rich document e.g., Word, PDF handling Expertise in using configuration management tool like CVS and GIT for version controlling. Expert in Various Agile methodologies like SCRUM, Test Driven Development, Incremental and Iteration methodology and Pair Programming as well as implementing Waterfall model. Experience in version control tools like CVS, SVN and AccuRev to manage and control software development. Having good knowledge on SCALA. Determining what Elastic Search queries produce the best seaech experience Improving performance and scalability of an existing Elastic Search app Highly motivated team player with strong communication, analytical, documentation and organizational skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS J2SE Technology  Multithreading, Reflections, Collections, Serialization, Networking, Beans Middleware Technology  JMS, MQ Messaging, Tibco, Solace, Active MQ J2EE Technology  Servlets, JSP, Tag Libraries, JDBC, JNDI Architecture  Framework  MVC, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, OSGI Database  Oracle 10g, 11g, SQL server 20052008, MySQL IDE  Eclipse, My Eclipse, NetBeans Operating Systems  Windows 9xNTXP200378, Linux, UNIX WebApp Servers  WebLogic, Web Sphere, Tomcat, JBoss, Apache GUI  HTML5, XML, XSD, AJAX, JavaScript, Node.js,Angular JS, JQuery, CSS3 Query Languages  SQL, PLSQL Programming Language  C, C, Java, J2EE Script  PHP, Shell Design patterns  MVC3, Business Delegate, Business Object, Value Object, Front Controller, Database Access Object, Factory, Singleton, Session Facade. Tools  Maven, ANT, Log4J, JUnit, TOAD, SoapUI 4.0.5, JUnit, Rational Rose, Visio PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Client ICF International, FairFax, VA Role Sr. Java Developer Jan 2016- till date Project Title Children Welfare Outcomes CWO Child Welfare Outcomes Reports provide information on the performance of states in seven outcome categories. The Department identified these outcomes prior to the first Child Welfare Outcomes Report in close consultation with state and local child welfare agency administrators, child advocacy organizations, child welfare researchers, state legislators, and other child welfare experts. The outcomes used in the reports reflect widely accepted performance objectives for child welfare practice. In addition to reporting on state performance in these outcome categories, the Child Welfare Outcomes Reports also include data on contextual factors and findings of analyses conducted across states. Data for most of the measures in these reports come from the Departments two national child welfare-related data systems-the National Child Abuse and Neglect Data System NCANDS and the Adoption and Foster Care Analysis and Reporting System AFCARS. Responsibilities Participated in requirement gathering and framework implementation sessions through Agile TDD methodology. Used Grails Framework for designing the layout of the application in MVC pattern Client pages are built using HTML, CSS, JSP, javascriptJQuery. Worked on Groovy and Grails Tool SuiteGGTS for developing the legacy applicaion. Integrated the Front End code at Back End with Groovy and Grails in IDE. Used Gradle for build framework and Jenkins for continuous build system Involved in creating the Hibernate POJO Objects and mapped using Hibernate Annotations. Implemented Audit History and Annotations for Views and Messages Worked on Angular JS, Used its two way data binding to achieve the feedback functionality from the user Proficient in using SVN for Version Control. Worked as a Groovy and Grails developer for this Project Used Microsoft Visio for designing the Use Case Diagrams, Class model, Sequence diagrams, and Activity diagrams for SDLC process of the application. Implemented GUI pages by using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and AJAX. Implemented the project by using Spring Web MVC. Tested and implemented the Web Services by using SOAP UI tool. Developed a GUI to help to read the logs generated by the scripts, the logs were saved in mongodb, the GUI was created using flask, D3, jquery, tablesorter.js, REST web services. Implemented the online application by using Core Java, JSP, Servlets, Web Services, SOAP, and WSDL. Implemented Singleton, factory design pattern, DAO Design Patterns based on the application requirements. Tested the Service classes and DAO Classes by using Unit Test Cases Installing PAAS services shift and Cloud Foundry on High available Openstack setup and also in Amazon Web services. Worked on keysrone in OpenStack where Identity Service provides authorization and authentication for users . Worked on glance where the OpenStack Image Storage Service Glance stores and manages virtual machine images in different formats. These images are used by compute service to provision instances. Its comparable to AWS AMI Amazon Machine Image. Worked on neutron where the OpenStack Network Service Neutron enables network-connectivity interface devices managed by Compute. It enables users to create and attach interfaces to networks. It corresponds to AWS Networking. Defined collections to store data in MongoDB Used REST Web Services to consume and produce JSON. Integrated REST Web Services with services and DAO layer. Implemented complex queries with Hibernate for DAO layer. Worked on Ruby on Rails different versions to make them compatible accordingly required for project on windows Design and developed UI screens using Angular JS, JavaScript, HTML5 and CSS3. Monitored the error logs using Log4j and fixed the problems. Primarily using Node.js, Mongodb, Handlebars.js and npm packages to integrate new functionality and maintain previous code. Created Java J2EE application to View Data in MongoDB Fixed various existing UIs to meet the new design VDL standards. Implemented some Javascript validation to existing functionality. Implemented Service Oriented architecture models for Integrating various Cloud Applications Actively involved in code reviews and also in bug fixing. Experience with Front-end JavaScript frameworks like Angular JS, Node JS Prepared test cases using JUNIT and Node.js. Implement modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements. Developed real time tracking of class schedules using Node JS socket.io based on socket technology, Express JS framework. Integrated front end code with back end in JSP pages. Worked on Node.js responsible for managing the interchange of data between the server and the users Created Domains,Controllers,Views and Service layer for the pages in the application. Responsible for coding, testing and documenting various packages, procedures, and functions for libraries. Worked on JAVA SE 8 which is compatible with Grails 2.5.3 version. Worked on Apache Cassandra it is an open source distributed database management system designed to handle large amounts of data across many commodity servers, providing high availability with no single point of failure. Managed and Monitored Cassandra by Java Management Extensions JMX. Created a queue manager. manages the resources associated with it, in particular the queues that it owns. It provides queuing services to applications for Message Queuing Interface MQI calls and commands to create, modify, display, and delete WebSphere MQ objects Configured WebSphere resources like JDBC providers, JDBC data sources, connection pooling Prepared Documentation for the Project requirements and Application development. Used VAGRANTvirtual machine  for developing the application in virtual machine. Responsible for testing the controllers with Unit Test Cases and to test the Service layer using Integrated Test Cases. Used MYSQL as a database. Worked with JBOSS fuse Apache AMQ by creating queues and topics and also like searching and deleting contents of the Queue Deep understanding of information retrieval concepts, especially using tools such as Elasticsearch Integrated Java and Angular based application to Elastic Search tier via Spring 4 Restful Controllers communicating to a custom java utility wrapping the Jest API. Code and developed custom Elastic Search Java based wrapper client using the Jest API. To facilitate common access, to Elastic Search. Coded java based ES Queries and custom ES Query aggregations using the Jest API for searching and accessing data in Elastic Search. Expertise in XML and related technologies like XSL, XSLT, XPATH and parsers like JAXP SAX, DOM and JAXB. Worked on XPATH to search particular elements or attribute with matching patterns. Experience with Databases like Oracle, IBM DB2, MYSQL, Lucene, Elastic Search, JVM Tuning, ETL, SQL SERVER, JDBC etc. Developed Presentation layer components comprising of JSP, PERL,Lucene, Elastic Search, JVM tuning. Involved in making some static changes of the old application of CWO which is build on Ruby and Rails. EnvironmentJava, Groovy J2EE, Javascript, HTML5, CSS3, Angular.js, Spring, Hibernate, Grails, REST, JQuery, AJAX, ExtJS, JavaScript, JSP, SERVLET, Mysql DB, Oracle, CRUD, PLSQL, JDBC, Node Js, MongoDB, UML, Intellij, Junit, Gradle, Froq, Sequel Pro, Tomcat, Agile. ClientZions Bank, Salt Lake City, UT Feb 2014  Dec 2015 Role Java Developer Project Description Zions Bank is one of the nation fastest growing commercial banking organization providing personal financial, small business and corporate banking services. Worked on implementation of online account management system that provides secure online access to customer accounts and keeps track of daily account activity like withdrawals, deposits, payments, and trades. Credit report monitoring is a part of this application allowing customers to monitor their credit report and receive alerts about the credit report. The application also provides customers with online account transfers Responsibilities Responsible for writing J2EE compliant java code for application development effort which involved working with JSP, Servlets, JDBC, XML, EJB, etc. Design and Development of Objects using Object Oriented Design in Java. Preparing the migration document for migrating application from Struts to Spring and Responsive web designing the application Develop the changes using JSTL, JQuery, JCP, JSP, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring JDBC, Web services Configure beans in spring configuration file with Spring IOC, Spring AOP concepts. Experienced in developing SOAP-based Web Services and Web Service Clients JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL and JAXB Worked on XML Technologies like XML Parsers, JAXB for binding data to java objects Developed the Spring AOP Programming to configure logging for the application Implemented JMS for notifications and testing with JUnit, Mock cases. Wrote JUNIT Test cases for Spring Controllers and Web Service Clients in Service Layer using Mockito Configured Hibernate second level cache using EHCache to reduce the number of hits to the configuration table data Founded and developed usenet news text message archive search system for legacy usenet messages using PHP5, JAVA,SOLR, Apache, MYSQL. Highly motivated and committed Devops Engineer experienced in Automating, Configuring and deploying instances on AWS, Azure and Rackspace cloud environments and Data centers, also familiar with EC2, Cloud watch, Elastic IPs and managing security groups on AWS. Working as part of DevOps Team for different internal automation and build configuration management. SOLR implementation also used faceting, highlighting, custom relevance through dismax, and custom performance configurations. Coded custom data mappings and data analyzers for multiple elastic indices Translating business requirements into a Elastic Search implementation Providing advice regarding analyzers, tokenizers and Elastic Search mappings Designed and developed RDD Seeds Using Scala and cascading. Developed ETL parsing and analytics using ScalaSpark to build a structured data model in Elastic Search for consumption by the API and UI. Gathered functional requirements with proper documentation for the order management subsystem in WCS. Extensively used IBM Rational Application Developer RAD for developing, testing, and deploying applications in WCS. Extensively used IBM Rational Application Developer RAD for developing, testing, and deploying J2EE applicationsin WCS. Developed the application using Ruby on Rails frame work. Worked in Pivotal Cloud Foundry Environments and Application deployment using Cloud Foundry Designed the application by implementing Struts based on MVC Architecture, simple Java Beans as a Model, JSP UI Components as View and Action Servlet as a Controller Responsible for Load the required data in to MarkLogic of database using MLCPMarkLogic Content Pump from the source systems and setting up triggers to fire appropriate action based on the document load. Responsible for setting up new environments, by setting up Mark Logic databases, App servers, Triggers and maintaining the development environment. Creating necessary indexes and setting up configurations based on MarkLogic recommendation for optimum performance. Deploying metadata and XQuery files to appropriate nodes. Developed Web logic container security components for adding vendor specific Security Realm to application using JMX Used AJAX in suggestive search and to display dialog boxes with JSF and DOJO for some front end Involved in developing the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery User help tooltips implemented with Dojo Tooltip Widget with multiple custom colors Creation of scripts for generation of reports. Implemented test cases for Unit testing of modules using TestNG Worked on server side programming with Servlets. Used Scala as Object oriented for developing an application. Experience in designing MarkLogic project architecture for new initiatives and enhancements to build scalable, high-performance systems in MarkLogic Server Have extensive experience in building and deploying applications on WebApplication Servers like Apache Tomcat Woked on JIIRA for bug tracking. Experienced in Performance Tuning, Load Balancing and optimization of WebLogic Application Server Used JMS with Web Logic Application server Used Junit to run Cucumber feature and scenarios and generating report daily basis Working with Java to use Selenium-WebDriver API library to write automation scripting with Cucumber Feature and Scenario. Installed and configured on Oracle ATG Environment. Involved in migration from ATG 9.1 modules to ATG 11.1 Created ATG Rest service components for initialization service call which return Repository Items like insinuation flags, club code item and order history. Usage of Vagrant to implement environment for microservices deployments and testing in Docker images Created computing and data resources on AWS using EC2. Installed Pivotal Cloud Foundry on EC2 to manage the containers created by PCF. Used Docker to virtualize deployment containers and push the code to EC2 cloud using PCF. Used SpringCloud Boot and Netflix OSS for Microservices Development. Extensively involved in ATG Dynamo Framework,ATG Servlet Beans,ATG Repositories Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular JS and jquery to make the pages dynamic Work on designing specific programs efficiently through knowledge of multithreading using the Pthreads API with the goal of increasing performance on a wide variety of applications Involved Java Multithreading to cascade multiple changes on multiple records in only one transaction and developed a batch process framework. Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and spring. Developed user interface using JSP, HTML, XHTML, XSLT and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application. Used some case diagrams for Working on ordering and billing system in J2EE. Highly skilled in using Version Control Management tools like SVN, CVS, and GIT Environment JSP, JQuery, JSON, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring ORM, JAXB, XML, JAX-WS, Cloud foundry,SOAP Web Services, RESTful web services, JMS, MDB, Hibernate, JMX, , JUnit, Maven, GIT, Oracle, Tomcat, WebLogic Client level 3, Denver, CO Nov 2012-Jan 2014 Role Java Developer Project description Level 3 Communications is an American multinational telecommunications and Internet service provider. My team provides business intelligence, and mobile CRM solutions for sales and marketing team. It offers CRM solutions for sales and marketing automation, business analysis, front and back office integration, mobile CRM, and more business analytics solutions to track and analyze customer relationships, sales leads, market data, and key performance indicators and mobility CRM solutions that work on various devices. Responsibilities Designed use cases for the Application as per the business requirements. Participated in requirement gathering and framework implementation sessions through Agile TDD methodology Worked closely with the BusinessUsers team in translating technical requirements into application code Developed web layer using Struts framework to manage the project in MVC pattern. Implemented integration of Struts Action classes in Presentation Tier Used StrutsTilesFramework for designing the layout of the application. Client pages are built using HTML, CSS, JSP, javascriptJQuery Extensively used Core Java such as Exceptions, and Collections Used JSTL and developed required tiles and tile definitions for templating and defined configuration in the struts configuration.xml. Developed helper classes, delegate classes, value objects to access business tier and transfer the information from business layer to the presentation layer. Developed business layer using EJB stateless session beans and deployed on the Application server Web logic. Used Hibernate as persistence framework for DAO layer to access the Oracle10g database. Produced SOAP web services using Metro JAX-WS RI for building the business application layer. Performed Tuning, Load Balancing and optimization of WebLogic Application Server Defined XML documents for input and output sources of Web Services. Created schema documents for XML validation and developed XML schemes Developed unit test case scenarios for thoroughly testing ETL process and shared them with testing team. Involved in creating tech specifications for the ETL process based on mapping document. Used Maven for build framework and Jenkins for continuous build system Worked on ATG REST Services, Configured REST module and Customized rest Security Configuration and filtering Configuration to Define New Service Components. Worked on Eclipse for development and deployment of application in Web Logic Application Server. Responsible for coding, testing and documenting various packages, procedures, and functions for libraries. Proficient in using SVN for Version Control. Actively involved in code reviews and also in bug fixing. Environment Java, JSP, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, Ant, Struts, Spring, and Hibernate, RSA, WebSphere Application Server, DB2, XML, LDAP, Accurev, JUnit, and Windows2000. Client McKesson, Alpharetta,GA Nov 2011-Oct 2012 Role JavaJ2EE Developer Project Description This system provides Patient Administration, Billing Management functions for the hospital. The major functions of Administration module are Allocating Registration, Recording Personal Details, assigning Insurance Details, Retrieving Patient history records from other hospitals. The Billing module allows Billing and receivables, looks into multiple modes of Payment and Rates Definition for Services. Responsibilities Actively participated in meetings with Business Analysts and Architects to identify the scope, requirements and architecture of the project. Followed MVC model and used spring frameworks for developing the Web layer of the application. Developed application using Spring MVC, JSP, JSTL and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate. Developed User Interface and web page screens for various modules using JSF, JavaScript, and AJAX using RAD. Data Operations are performed using Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate and Implemented Hibernate Template and criteria API for Querying database. Developed interfaces and their implementation classes to communicate with the mid-tier services using JMS. Worked on ordering and billing system in J2EE. Extensively used JavaScript to provide dynamic User Interface and for the client side validations. Used AJAX framework for asynchronous data transfer between the browser and the server. Extensively used Java Multi-Threading concept for downloading files from a URL. Used J2EE design patterns like Front Controller, MVC, Business Delegate and Session Facade. Write front end code for developing new pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery. Involved in preparing Ant builds scripts XML based, deployments, integration and configuration management of the entire application modules. Used spring, Hibernate module as an Object Relational mapping tool for back end operations over SQL database. Developed the business components using EJB Session Beans. Involved in Database design for new modules and developed the persistence layer based on Hibernate. Implemented the J2EE design patterns Data Access Object DAO, Session Façade and Business Delegate. Developed unit test cases using JUnit and Log4j for logging. Environment Java, J2EE, spring, Hibernate, JSP, Eclipse 3.3, WebLogic, Maven, JUnit, CVS, CSS, HTML, XML, XSD, JavaScript, Oracle10g and Windows2007 ClientMplex Networks, India June 2009-Oct 2011 Role Java Developer AerolexCablenet was engaged in the business of Multi System Operation MSO meaning a company in the business of transmission of Cable Television Signal Provision CATV and Internet Service Provider ISP through cable Broadband ISP. The maintenance of the website and the customer information portal was the important task. Responsibilities Implemented the project according to the Software Development Life Cycle SDLC Developed the web layer using Spring MVC framework. Implemented JDBC for mapping an object-oriented domain model to a traditional relational database. Created Stored Procedures to manipulate the database and to apply the business logic according to the users specifications. Involved in analyzing, designing, implementing and testing of the project. Developed UML diagrams like Use cases and Sequence diagrams as per requirement. Developed the Generic Classes, which includes the frequently used functionality, for reusability. Exception Management mechanism using Exception Handling Application Blocks to handle the exceptions. Designed and developed user interfaces using JSP, Java script, HTML and Struts framework. Involved in Database design and developing SQL Queries, stored procedures on MySQL. Developed Action Forms and Action Classes in Struts frame work. Developed and maintained front end applications and web applications for ecommerce. Programmed session and entity EJBs to handle user info track and profile based transactions. Involved in writing JUnit test cases, unit and integration testing of the application. Developed user and technical documentation. Environment JAVA, Java Script, HTML, JDBC Drivers, Soap Web Services, UNIX, Shell scripting, SQL Server Client Honda Motors, Hyderabad, India July 2007 - May2009 Junior Java Developer Honda Motor India HMI, a wholl0y owned subsidiary of Honda Motors, has zeroed in on Servigistics Service Parts Management to reduce inventory and increase demand satisfaction across India. The new solution will enable the company to handle multiple layered locations and to minimize excess by enabling transfers between locations. Once implemented, the solution is expected to increase planner efficiency and decrease delivery lead time to dealers across India by improving part availability. Developing End-User friendly GUI using JSP, HTML, DHTML, Javascript CSS Implemented MVC design pattern using Servlets, Java Beans and JSP. Used various Core Java collections framework JDK1.5 to build up application Applied OO Programming concepts like Polymorphism and Inheritance to improve the existing JavaJEE based code base. Applied design patterns like Factory pattern, Singelton and DAO effectively. Involved in maintenance and enhancement of the application Writing complex  cross browser Javascript to validate the web pages Analyzed and documented the business requirements of the customer Prepared Junit test cases for the application Environment JAVAJEE, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, Oracle9i, Log4J, JBoss Education Details  Bachelors degree in Computer Science Engineering from JNTU.