Personal Information Name Pradeep Sundar Current Designation Sr. JavaJ2EE Developer Current Location Nashville,TN Contact 415-769-8565 Email ID psundar.sfgmail.com Employer Details Name Koti Reddy Contact 707-401-1021 Email ID kotiradcomsoftwareservices.com Profile Objective I am an IT Professional intending to continue my development experience as a worthy IT Software ProgrammerEngineer JavaJ2EE Developer. I always want to be the part of a reputed organization which provides steady career growth along with job satisfaction, challenges and give value contribution in the success of organization. Technical Profile More than 8 years of Java Development Experience that includes Analysis, Design, Development, documentation, Implementation, testing phases of Enterprise, ClientServer, Web based and system level applications in Java, J2EE, J2SE technologies. Previous Clients I worked for Professional Summary Experienced in analysis, design, developing and testing internetintranet Web-based applications, ClientServer applications, J2EE Architecture, OO Design patterns. Experienced in all stages of SDLC Software Development Life Cycle including proposal, process engineering, requirement analysis, design, development, testing, deployment and support. Experience in applying design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Factory Pattern, Service Locator, Business Delegate, Data Access Object, Session Facade and Value object pattern etc. Strong experience in Web development using HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX Framework Rich Faces, My Faces, AngularJS, React JS, BackboneJS, XML, XSL, XSLT, Ext JS. Strong experience in implementation and design of MVC architecture. Hands on experience on MVC frameworks such as Angular, Angular2, Backbone JS, Ember JS, Backbone, jQuery, Bootstrap. Proficient in with GUI plug-ins like Tiles Framework, Custom Tag Libraries, plug-ins like Validator Framework. Very good understanding of Model View Controller MVC, Client Server and N-tier architectures. Excellent Expertise in OOAD and OOP from designing UML diagrams using IBM Rational Rose. Expertise in Java concepts like OOP, Java Swing, Java Struts, Spring Framework, Hibernate ORM, JDBC, JMS. Extensive experience in concepts such as Java EE, J2EE technologies such as JDBC, JSP, JSF, Servlets, Hibernate, EJB, Spring, XML, XSD, XSL, JNDI, RDBMS, Web Services, Struts, Spring, Tiles, Hibernate, JMS, AJAX. Designing and Developing Single Page web applications SPA using AngularJS and NodeJS Extensive experience in using Amazon Web Services like RDS, EC2, Redshift, SQS, SNS, Cloud Watch and S3. Experience in developing spring features like Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Ribbon, Spring Security, Spring Integration, Spring Eureka, Spring Netflix Experience in application development using Software development methodologies such as Agile, Iterative Waterfall development and TDD Test Driven Development environments. Excellent experience with Application Servers like IBM WebSphere, Oracle WebLogic, Glassfish, JBoss. Experience in using Hibernate and iBatis Object Relational Mapping tool in J2EE environment. Developed dynamic web applications and web services using Eclipse, JBuilder, JDeveloper, NetBeans and Web Logic. Created, tested, and deployed React apps with the best practices of ReactRedux. Implemented various Ajax Frameworks such as jQuery, DOJO, JSON. Designed various integration components using JMS and MQ Series and worked on Spring Kafka and Zookeeper apart from JMS as messaging service. Experience in Microservices-Spring Boot, Pivotal Cloud Foundry and Spring Boot. Experienced in databases such as Oracle, DB2 and MS SQL Server to manage tables, views, indexes, sequences, stored procedures, functions, triggers and packages. Managed and maintained NoSQL MongoDB, Apache Cassandra DB databases in production domain. Proficient in using Amazon Web Services AWS. Extensive experience focusing on services like EC2, Elastic Beanstalk, Cloud Front, Cloud Formation, IAM, RDS, Elastic cache, SNS, SQS, AMI. Responsible for working a queue of JIRA tickets to address system issues, user requests, etc. Apache Tomcat 8 and NodeJS servers to deploy and configure Java APIs and frontend modules. Extensive Experience in retrieving and manipulating data from backend using Database SQL queries, PLSQL- Stored Procedures, Functions, Sequences, Triggers, Views and Packages. Experience working on several Docker components like Docker Engine, Hub, Machine, creating Docker images, Compose, Docker Registry and handling multiple images primarily for middleware installations. Experienced with Jenkins methodologies includes Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment. Excellent Experience in writing ANT, Hudson, Maven build scripts, providing logging facility using Log4j. Expertise in developing SOA Service Oriented Architecture, REST and J2EE Web Services based on SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS using tools like Apache Axis. Part of Scrum, Sprint review, Retrospection and Virtual Closure meetings as a part of AGILE. Experience in using various version control tools like SVN, CVS and IBM Rational Clear Case. Experience in Builddeploy tools like CVS, VSS, SVN, git, Maven, Jenkins, Clear Case, Clear Quest and ANT. Experience in Integration tools Oracle SOA SuiteBPELFusion Middleware, web-methods and Apache CAMEL. Writing Junit test cases and used Clear Quest, JMeter, Test-ng plugins to run selenium scripts. Expertise in Selenium automation using Selenium WebDriver, Selenium Grid, Junit Maven and other unit testing frameworks like Protractor, Jasmine, Mockito, SoapUI. Professional Experience Jackson National Life, Nashville, TN December 2016 to Present Role Senior JavaJ2EE Developer Project Description The Electronic Order Entry EOE system is an automated web-based transaction processing application specifically designed to maximize efficiency in a reps day-to-day business. With EOE a rep can electronically submit new account applications, update existing applications, and enter orders that identify and generate required disclosures. Responsibilities Participated in Software development life cycle SDLC to deliver business needs. Developed and Designed code, prepare test data, testing and debugging programs and review code. Created UML use case diagrams, sequence diagrams and Technical Design Documentation. Designed the applications using EJB framework and Struts. Designed the applications using Struts MVC framework. Worked on Core J2EE patterns like MVC, Business Delegate, Factory Pattern, Abstract Factory Pattern, Frontend Controller, Service Locator, Data Access Object, etc. for solving complexities in multitier services. Designed and coded application components in an Agile environment utilizing a test-driven development approach. Performed following sprintstand-up sessions and used Excel extensively to write user stories. Solid ability to work on Agile and SOA project. Built pages using JavaScript, jQuery, CSS2, HTMLHTML5. Extensively used Struts MVC and DAOs to develop the web layer for the application. Used JSP and JSTL Tag Libraries for developing User Interface components. Extensive JavaScript utilization for Business Rules and Client-side validation. Developed User Interface validation framework in combination with custom validation built on top of validation framework from the form bean. Performance monitoring, tuning and troubleshooting JBOSS and Apache server instances. Experience in Serialization, Synchronization, Multi-Threading and another core Java concept. Converted data sources from WebLogic to JBOSS. Data Binding using jQuery and JavaScript templating Developed PLSQL programming on Oracle database using Oracle SQL Developer and Java JDBC technologies. Involved in writing Configuration XML file that contains declarations and another dependent object declaration. Responsible for implementation of Hybrid Test Automation Framework build using Selenium WebDriver, Cucumber testing, Gatling testing and Maven technologies under Java platform utilizing industry leading harness design patterns and approaches. Used XML and SOAP Web Services for communicating data between different applications. Used Root cause analysis to recognize issues and develop process improvements. Optimizing SQL queries, building complex SQLs, dynamic SQLs and triggers, written stored procedures. Worked on DB2 and Sybase for the database accessibility. Produced and analysed DB2 performance reports. Integrated JPA persistence using Hibernate to save the current state of the drools knowledge session using the Spring Framework integration. Used Drools to generate various forms according to policy required Generated scripts for effective integration of JIRA applications. Configured Log4j for logging activity at various levels. Upgraded JIRA tool for continuous integration and performed regression testing. Manage all CM tools JIRA, Jenkins, ANT, Git, and their usage  process ensuring traceability, repeatability, quality, and support. Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained a human resources intranet site using Apache HTTP Server. Implemented JMS for communication by diverting the messages into a queue. Used Log4j for logging and debugging and used JUnit extensively for testing. Designed and coded application components in an Agile environment utilizing a test-driven development TDD approach. Used JUnit to write repeatable tests mainly for unit testing using Mockito. Experienced in technical reporting and software documentation using MS Office products. Environment JDK 1.6, J2EE, JSP, JPA, Core Java, EJB, Scrum, WebLogic, Oracle 11g, Eclipse 4.x, Log 4J, ANT, Oracle 11g, Windows. PLSQL, DB2, JIRA, GIT, HTML5, CSS 2, jQuery, SOAP, Servlets, JSF Java Beans, JDBC, JNDI, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JMS, AJAX, Java-Script, JUnit, Eclipse, RADRSA, IBM MQs, JBOSS, Tomcat HTML, DHTML, XML, XSLXSLT. Alaska Airlines, Seattle, WA January 2016 to November 2016 Role JavaJ2EE Developer Project Description American airlines are the sixth-oldest operating airline by foundation date, and the oldest airline still operating in the United States. This project is intended to replicate the online airline self-service reservation capabilities, where you can select from multiple air travel service providers, dates, times, and select your seat assignment. Responsibilities Developed various J2EE components like Servlets, JSP, JSTL, AJAX, SAX, JAXP, JNDI and JMS. Used Spring MVC framework to enable the interactions between JSPView layer and implemented different DPs. Data Operations were performed using Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate. Implemented business layer using Core java, Spring Beans using dependency injection, Spring annotations. Used a micro service architecture, based services interacting through a combination of REST and MQ and leveraging AWS to build, test and deploy Identity microservices. Developing RESTFUL web services using JPA, Cloud Foundry. Worked on service-oriented systems that utilize REST web frameworks, SOAP and message queue technologies Spring MVC, Spring REST Template, RabbitMQ AMQP server, Spring Integration Developing database adapter, web services adapter, messaging adapter and custom workflow for non-oracle system using Camel and Implemented Apache Camel routes using Camel-Spring XML and Camel-Spring processor beans. Set up Jenkins server and build jobs to provide automated builds based on polling the GIT source control system. Created AWS EC2 Linux instances and bash scripts to run post processing. Used Jenkins with Ansible playbooks to run the deployment process. Used S3 buckets to manage document management and RDS to host database. Used AWS cloud formation templates and AMI to recreate instances. Experience working with Oracle EBS modules. Designed and developed JSP pages using Spring MVC framework and created Spring MVC components like Dispatch servlets, configure Request mapping annotation controllers, view resolver components. Developed server-side services using Java, Spring, Web Services SOAP, Restful, WSDL, JAXB, JAX-RPC Involved in implementing Microservices using Spring boot, Pivotal Cloud Foundry. With Pivotal Cloud Foundry, the connectionservice binding details are injected from the deployed cloud platform itself. Built screens with Spring MVC, JSPs, CSS, Dojo and custom JavaScript. Hands on, project implementation experience with Cloud technologies like Pivotal Cloud Foundry. Implemented features like logging, user session validation using Spring-AOP module and Spring IOC. Integrated Spring with Hibernate using configurations and implemented DAO layer to save entities into data base. Used JSP, CSS3, jQuery and AngularJS. Set up Secure Sockets Layer SSL communication in WebSphere application server. Experienced in collaborating with senior backend and senior mobile developers in an Agile Scrum Methodology Environment Java 1.7, J2EE, Servletfilters, JSP, JSTL, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Microservices, Spring REST, Spring Security, Hibernate 3.0, Ajax, AngularJS, Apache Camel, AWS, EC2, S3, WebSphere, Tomcat, Netflix API, Eclipse STS, Oracle 11g, MAVEN, Log4J, Jenkins, JProfiler, JMeter, Git, JIRA, JUnit, Mockito, Fiddler. Florida Department of Environmental Protection, Tallahassee, FL September 2014 to December 2015 Role JavaJ2EE Developer Project Description The Florida Department of Environmental Protection is the Florida government agency charged with environmental protection. It is under the nominal control of the Governor. Project is about developing screens, which will allow users to view the status of the Datasets in Staging. Only users who are authorized to upload data will access these screens to see the status of Datasets. From these screens users will be able to upload, edit, delete, export the Datasets, and migrate error free data to production, view numbers of errors, link to error reports of the individual Datasets. Responsibilities Analysing the business and functional requirements provided by the client. Worked on integration methodology and strategy including interface, data flow, and process flow. Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping ORM purposes for transparent persistence onto the Oracle 11g database using Hibernate Query language HQL. Improved database performance by recognizing and rewriting slow queries. Developed a single page, mobile-first, cross-devicecross-browser web application for real-time location sharing utilizing AngularJS, JavaScript API. Developed server-side REST style web services and called them from backbone collections. Integrated the Java code API in JSP pages and responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development. Implemented code according to coding standards and Created AngularJS Controller, which Isolate scopes perform operations. Developed custom directives, Factories and Services in AngularJS. Worked on responsive design in making the application compatible with desktop, tablet, mobile and also developed tabbed pages. Wrote Jasmine unit tests using Karma to verify AngularJS modules and JavaScript utility routines. Using AngularJS created Responsive Web Design RWD and did data manipulations to display data in company standard format in UI. Wrote Web Services SOA, SOAP and WSDL for address validations. Used Declarative Transaction management system of Spring Framework and integrated it with JDBC and Hibernate transaction managers to customize transactional behaviour. Used Spring Framework to organize middle-tier applications. Maintaining existing scripts and writing new scripts to automate the existing environment using Maven Used JSTL and custom tag library with frameworks such as AJAX and jQuery, to build interactive and attractive user interfaces. Used JavaScript to develop the front-end of the application. Designed front-end based on Bootstrap templates and embedded forms verification with JavaScript together with Regular Expression. Worked on unit and integration testing of the application. Developed dynamic JSP webpages for the user interface. Wrote JUnit test cases to support business logic and unit testing. Created SQL queries, used functions, procedures and triggers. Implemented advanced java API and core java for coding sophisticated business logic. Solid deployment experience on the UNIX platform. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, bootstrap and AngularJS. Environment Java JDK, J2EE, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Log4J, UML, AJAX, JSON, WebLogic, Hibernate, Oracle 11g, SQL, PLSQL, HTTP, HTTPS, Windows, Web Services, Unix, Bootstrap, SOA, SOAP, WSDL, SSO, Junit, XMLXSL, Ant, jQuery, Struts, Spring, NoSQL CVS Caremark, Chicago, IL November 2013 to August 2014 Role Java Full Stack Developer Description It is an exhaustive product that addresses entire gamut of automation needs of the Hospital and comprises of the following activities In-Patient  Out-Patient Administration, Lab and other Clinical Investigations Pharmacy, General Inventory and Purchasing, Pay-Roll  HR Administration tenancy of General and Biomedical equipment, Financial Accounting and Billing House-Keeping, Ward management, ICU and OT administration, Marketing Health Services. Responsibilities Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development, testing production of application using Waterfall model. Developed web applications with HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and Angular JS. Used jQuery for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes. Also used CSS pre- processors SASS Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework using Angular JS and HTML. Involved in rendering additional components with custom HTML tags using React.js Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX and Angular resources. Developed code for Responsive web design in JavaScript using frameworks like Angular.js, React.js Used the Collections API, Generics, multi-threading while developing code. Method references are used provided in Java8 to make use of methods already named Database development required creation of new tables PLSQL stored procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application. Involved in the struts upgrade to 2.X which involved in changes to action class. Experience in developing LINUX shell scripts for automating deployment of applications Developed Spring middleware components for implementing business logic. Designed and developed Business components and Integrated with Spring framework and developed various reusable Helper and Utility classes, which are used across all the modules of the application. Used RESTful for producing web services and involved in writing programs to consume the web services Deployed the java application using Maven build script. Used Log4j for logging various levels of information like error, info, and debug into the log files. Implemented SOA based architecture using web services to build a loosely coupled system. Used JavaJ2EE Design patterns such as Singleton, Service Locater, DAO etc. and Spring IOC pattern and responses. Performed GitHubGitHub-Desktop bash and Terminal commands to clone, fetch, merge and push the code and created pull requests for changes that are made. Implemented Swagger for the microservices for Documenting Rest API. Designed enterprise APIs and involved in developing the APIs. Involved in testing APIs using SoapUI and Postman. Implemented Rest API Design Guidelines for the microservices. Involved in writing Maven scripts for automated deployment of the application and managed GitHub Projects and migrated from SVN to GitHub with merge and version and used Jenkins for continuous integration Involved in working with the QA to assist in writing test code and debugging the defects in the application. Responsible for making sure that all system upgrade logs were current and creating a report for management. Assisted in designing several significant Cisco network upgrades for larger clients. Environment Agile waterfall, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and Angular JS, XML, JSTL JSP, Java, Spring Frameworks, Hibernate, JDBC, RESTful Web services, SOAP, Jenkins, Maven, Mongo DB, NoSQL, Log4j, Jenkins, JIRA, LINUX, UNIX, SVN, GIT. Life Insurance Corporation, Hyderabad, Telangana, India June 2012 to October 2013 Designation JavaJ2EEUI Developer Project Description Customer Transfer is UI and Back end-based application. It can be used as a customer can transfer the agent for his LIC policies. It includes all policies depends on the customers requirement and rendering the complete transferring to the agent as well as customer. Responsibilities Participated in designing of the framework, required technique to use in each component. Involved in requirements gathering and analysis from the existing system. Captured requirements using Use Cases and Sequence Diagrams. Hand on experience in developing single page application SPA using AngularJS, created Multiple  Nested Views, Routing, Controllers, Services and Custom Directives, Node.js, Bower, Grunt. Implemented the associated business modules integration using Spring and Hibernate data ORM mapping. Used Spring dependency injection, MVC components to implement business layer and navigation part of application. Worked on Rest Web services, Node Rest framework for backend services, Apache Casandra for database services. Designed the framework mainly in Spring MVC, built from scratch, and wrote filters to limit the use  inheritance of some methods  class, components such as Action Mapping, Action class, Dispatch action class, Action Form bean. Used Java Messaging Services JMS for reliable and asynchronous communication and exchange of important required information such as payment status report and credit card information. Developed new features for a RESTful backend services in Closure and led evolution of an entire backend architecture and used RAML based REST web services for APIs using Mule ESB. Involved in Database design and Normalization. Configured and verified AWS workstations as per application requirement and deployed application to AWS cloud Used Active MQ to improve the stability and scaled the system for more concurrent users of the application. Handled browser compatibility issues in HTML, CSS and JavaScript for IE, Firefox and Chrome browsers Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON. Created reusable templates and style sheets based on UI standards and guidelines. Developed Maven scripts and developed builds using Maven and continuous integration servers like Jenkins. Used log4j to deliver control over logging and Used Git as Version Control System for the application. Use of data structures and algorithms for time and memory complexity reduction, oops concepts like inheritance, encapsulation, reusability and better performance of application. Configured the WebSphere application server to connect with Oracle Server in the back end by creating JDBC data source and configured MQ Series and JMS Queues with IBM RAD and WAS to create new connection queues. Created and configured new JIRA projects and worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA projects. Used Junit and TestNG testing Framework as a test runner with Selenium and JMeter to test performance both on static, dynamic resources and developed Protractor test classes for end to end testing in Front end. Environment Java, J2EE, JDK 1.8, RCP, AWS SDK, Ext JS, Git, Spring 4.x, AWS SNSSQS, hibernate4.x, Core Java, SOAPRest, Web Services, JavaScript, closure, UML, Web Services, HTML5, CSS, SDKs, JIRA 5.x6.x, JAXB, Linux, JAX-WS, JAX RPC, JMS, JSF, UNIX, Selenium, Angular JS, NodeJS, Apache, JMeter, jQuery, JUnit, Maven, EMR, Oracle 10g. Care Hospitals Group, Hyderabad, Telangana, India December 2010 to May 2012 Role Java Developer Project Description Care Hospitals having server-side web application for their different health care providers. Customer will choose different health care benefits out of the plan options available. The services will enable them to manage health Check-up products, features, benefits and benefit values and attributes. Client interacts through web interface with web services written at back end to fetch data from database and select their plan benefits. Responsibilities Worked with JAXB, SAXP and XML Schema for exporting data into XML format and importing data from XML format to data base and JAXB in the web services request response data marshalling as well as un marshalling process. Implemented the web services client to consume the third-party service API for validating credit cards information. Used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions and designed configuration XML Schema for the application. Implemented views, modules using Struts tags, JSTL2.0, Mappings, Expression Language. Involved in designing and implementing the application using various Java and J2EE Design patterns design patterns such as Singleton, Business Delegate, Façade, MVC and Data Access Object DAO. Developed UI using Spring view component, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript. Used Clear Case for source code maintenance. Utilized Spring MVC annotations and XML configuration for Dependency Injection. Implemented the MVC architecture using Apache Struts1.2 Framework and Tiles Framework for the views layout. Wrote SQL queries, stored procedures, modifications to existing database structure for addition features Controller Servlets, Action, Form objects for process of interacting with Oracle database and retrieving dynamic data. Involved in writing all formats of database quires like SQL, HQL in DAO layer. Developed Unit test cases using Junit and Developed ant scripts and developed builds using Apache ANT. Created the design documents with use-case diagram, class diagrams, and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose. Used Jenkins as a continuous integration tool for application building, testing and deploying. Co-ordinate with the QA lead for development of test plan, test cases, test code and actual testing responsible for defects allocation and those defects are resolved. Was part of production support team to resolve the production issues. Environment Java, J2EE, Spring Framework, Spring MVC, Hibernate, SOAPREST Web Services, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, SQL, HQL, XML, JMS, UML, Apache Tiles, Log4J, Apache Maven, Apache Tomcat, MySQL, JUnit, Log4j, Jenkins, InteliJ, CVS. HDFC Bank, Hyderabad, Telangana, India July 2009 to November 2010 Role Software Developer Project Description HDFC Bank Limited is an Indian banking and financial services company. HDFC Bank provides a range of commercial and transactional banking services, including working capital finance, trade services, transactional services, cash management. Responsibilities Responsible for requirement gathering from the Business Analysts and for preparing the requirement specification document Involved in development of the applications using Spring MVC and other components of the Spring Framework, the controller being Spring Core Dispatcher Servlet Implemented controller abstract and mapped it to a URL in -servlet.xml file. Implemented JSP corresponding to the controller where in the data was propagated into it from the model and view object from the controller. Designed and Implemented MVC architecture using Spring Framework, which involved writing Action ClassesFormsCustom Tag Libraries JSP pages. Developed Action classes, Enterprise Java Beans EJB Session Beans using DAO design pattern. Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate that use the POJOs to represent the persistence database tuples. These POJOs are serialized Java Classes that would not have the business processes. Developed Perl scripts to automate frequent reports for the users. Designed, developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate and performed configuration of Spring Application Framework Used Hibernate to store the persistence data into the Oracle database and written HQL to access the data from the database. Debugged and troubleshooted JavaScript code using tools such as Firebug. Used JMS Java Messaging Service for asynchronous communication between different modules. Used XML, WSDL, UDDI, and SOAP Web services for communicating data between different applications. Part of a team that would plan develop and create mobile applications to match the needs of industrial clients. Initiated and developed mobile solutions for Java. Deployed the application on WebLogic Application server. Worked with QA team to design test plan and test cases for User Acceptance Testing UAT Experienced in technical reporting and software documentation using MS Office products Environment Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, HTML, Rest API, Scala, Spray, JavaScript, EJB 3.0, JSP 2.1, CSS, JDBC 3.0, JMS 1.1, XML, WSDL, Perl, UDDI, SOAP Web Services, SQL, WebLogic 9, Eclipse 3.2., Zookeeper Technical Skills Languages C, C, Java, J2EE, SQL, PLSQL. Enterprise Java Java, J2EE, Sockets, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JMS, Java Beans, JSTL, JSF, Struts, EJB, Spring, JTA, JNDI and JPA. WebXML Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap, AngularJS, React JS, Backbone JS, XML, XSD, XSLXSLT, SAXDOM, JSON, DOJO, Node JS. Tools  Frameworks Struts, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, JMS, JSF, Log4J, SOA, Jasper reports, SOAP UI, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Security, and Spring Data. Web services SOAP, RESTful, UDDI, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS JAX-WS, JAX-B, Apache Axis2, Apache CFX, JMS, MQ, Amazon Web Services AWS and Micro Services. WebApp Servers Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, JBoss, WebLogic. Database Oracle, SQL-Server, MySQL server, MS SQL, IBM DB2, MongoDB and NoSQL Development Tools Eclipse, My Eclipse, RAD, Spring Tool Suite STS, IntelliJ IDEA O-R mapping Hibernate, JPA, JTA ModellingCASE Tools Rational Rose, MS Visio Professional, Star UML Platforms Windows, Win 2k Server, Sun Solaris, UNIX Micro services Swagger, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, Spring Micro Services, Spring boot, Netflix Eureka Cloud Computing AWS Amazon Web Services, EC2, RDS, S3 Methodologies RUP Rational Unified Process, Agile, Waterfall, SCRUM, Rapid Application Development Application Frameworks Struts 1.x2.x, Spring Dependency Injection, Spring MVC, Factory Pattern, Core, Spring Context, Spring DAO, Spring IOC, Spring JDBC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring with Hibernate ORM Frameworks JPA, Hibernate, Spring JPA, DAO OO Modelling Rational Rose, MS Visio Testing Tools Others JUnit, SoapUI, Putty, Rational Clear Quest, RTC, Load UI, JIRA Version Control GIT, CVS, SVN, Rational clear case, Star Team Education Bachelors Degree B.Tech in Computer Science Engineering