Tarun Nalluri Sr. JavaPython Developer Phone 802 768-1105 E mail nalluri.t01gmail.com Professional Summary 10 years of IT experience that include deployment of javaj2eeapplications, tune up, performance optimization, troubleshoot, make decisions, data process, code review and documentation. Experience in clientserver and distributed multi-tierOracle Web Commerce, ATG BCC, CSC, ATG Endeca, Jboss, Weblogic  WebSphere applications, their development, maintenance and administration in different UNIX, Linux and Windows platforms Having Domain Experience in Finance, Accounting, Banking Telecom, Health Care, Airlines and E-Commerce. Involve in designing, developing, Installing and Configuring, Administering and Tuning and Troubleshooting JavaJ2EE applications such as JBoss, IBM WebSphere Application, Portal, Process, MQ Tivoli, ND clusters 7.x6.15.X,Weblogic, Web servers HTTP Servers, web services, Tomcat Apache all on cluster vertical  horizontal. With Functional expertise on Web Application  Desktop Application, CRM Applications. Experience on Oracle-Endeca Experience Manager, Operational and Search tuning, creating and maintaining Endeca page templates and cartridges. Also familiar with DevOps concepts. Sound experience comprising of Software Configuration Management SCM  Development. Extensive experience includes SCM, BuildRelease Management, ChangeIncident Management, VMware and AWS Cloud computing Worked on creating page layouts using Commerce Composer. . Cloud based deployment experience on Amazon EC2 and their other offerings like S3 and AWS Experienced in installing, configuring, and administrating Hadoop cluster of major Hadoop distributions, 2.5 Fyears of experience with Hadoop, HDFS, Map Reduce and Hadoop Ecosystem Pig  Hive. Experienced at Software Development Life Cycles and Agile Programming Methodologies. Good knowledge on Hudson and Jenkins for continuous integration and for End to End automation for all build and deployments. Extensively worked on setting up enterprise monitoring tools like Zabbix, AppDynamics, Graphite Expert in deploying the code through web application servers like Web SphereWeb Logic Apache TomcatJBOSS. Hands on experience in installing, configuring and using ecosystem components like Hadoop MapReduce, HDFS, Sqoop, Pig, Hive and pig commands. Strong understanding of Zoo Keeper, Cassandra  Flume to the existing Hadoop cluster on linux and HD Insight on windows Exposure to OOAD methodologies like waterfall model. Knowledgeable in creating various project artefacts like use-case documents, class diagrams, design document, architecture document, etc. Experienced in Object Oriented Analysis and Object Oriented Design using Unified Modelling Language UML and in Design Methodologies like MVC, DAO, OOP, and OOD Good skills in Java Multithreading, Exception Handling, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, EJB, PHP,Custom Tag Libraries, Java Script, AJAX, CSS, HTML5, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Enterprise Java Beans, JDBC, RMI, ESB,JNDI, XML XSD, XSLT, DOM, SAX, SOAP, WSDL, JSON, JQuery, Java Script, CSS and HTML, , LDAP,Web Services related technologies using AXIS. Proficiency in back-end procedure development, for RDBMS, Database Applications using Oracle, DB2, SQL and PLSQL, SQL Server.Hands on experience on writing Queries, Stored procedures, Functions and Triggers by using PLSQL. Strong understanding and experience in automation and configuration management toolsRundeck,chef, PuppetandContinuous IntegrationDelivery solutions Jenkins,Hudson Experience in version control system tools Git, SVN, Clearcase. Extensively worked with Infrastructure as a Service IaaS environments using tool Chef. Managed environments DEV, QA, UAT and PROD for various releases and designed instance strategies. Well Adverse with the principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management SCM processes, which include compiling, packaging, deploying and Application configurations. Hands-on Experience of the J2EE Framework and its components as related to Java build, test, deployment and release management initiatives.. Exposure to Module development, Requirement Analysis, Functional Specification Documentation and interaction - onsite coordination with client. Monitoring and maintaining multiple Applications in different Environments. Extensive Experience in installationmigrationdeployment of Enterprise Applications using dynmo admin, Endeca-workbench, BCC, WAS Admin Console, on a highly available, load balanced production environments. Strong analytical and problem solving skills, ability to quickly adapt to new environments, learn new technologies and meet deadlines. Technical Skills Professional Experience