Vamshi SUMMARY 8 years of experience in developing and designing Web Based InternetIntranet, Client- Server and Multi-tier distributed applications using latest J2EE technologies and various open source frameworks. Experienced in all stages of SDLC Software Development Life Cycle including proposal, process engineering, requirement analysis, design, development, testing, deployment and support. Expertise in Front-End Development using MVC frameworks such as SpringMVC,Struts, JSF, JQUERY. Extensive experience in Java, J2EE technologies such as JDBC, JSP, JSF, Servlets, EJB, Hibernate, Spring, XML, XSD, XSL and JNDI, Web services, Struts, Tiles, Hibernate, JMS, AJAX. Expertise in Client Side Designing and Validations using Angular js, Node.js,HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java Script, JSP, Struts Tag Library, JSTL. Proficient in Object Oriented Analysis and Design OOAD based on Unified Modeling Language UML architecture. Developed different Web components such as JSPs, Servlets, Filters, Custom Tag Handlers and Business components such as RMI, EJB, JMS, and Web Services. Familiar with all aspects of technology projects including BusinessRequirements, TechnicalArchitecture, DesignSpecification, Development and Deployment. Experienced in databases such as Oracle, DB2 and MS SQL Server to manage tables, views, indexes, sequences, stored procedures, functions, triggers and packages. Familiar and Worked on various Operating Systems like UNIX Sun Solaris, AIX, Linux,Windows NT, Windows XP, Windows 2K. Proficient in with GUI plug-ins like Tiles Framework, Custom Tag Libraries, validation plug-ins like Validator Framework. Responsible in migration from Hibernate to Open JPA. Developed dynamic web applications and web services using RAD, Eclipse, JBuilder, JDeveloper,Netbeans and Web Logic workshop. Implemented various Ajax Frameworks such as JQuery, DOJO, JSON. Designed and developed various integration components using JMS and MQ Series. Extensively worked on XML technologies like XML, XSL, XSD, XSLT, Xquery, Xpath and DTD. Expertise in developing Web Services for data transfer from client to server and vice versa using Apache Axis, REST, SOAP, WSDL, and UDDI. Written and developed scripts for automating tasks using Ant 1.5, and UNIX shell programming Exposure to Application Servers like BEA WebLogic, IBM WebSphere, Apache Tomcat and JBoss. Hands on experience with source control tools like CVS, Clear Case, SVN, Git and Perforce. Worked on Spring-DAO based declarative transaction management. Worked extensively with importing metadata into Hive using Scala and migrated existing tables and applications. Defined AWS Security Groups which acted as virtual firewalls that controlled the traffic allowed to reach one or more AWS EC2 instances. Experienced in frameworks like Jakarta struts framework, JSF, spring, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Hibernate. Developed functions and store procedures using SQL and PLSQL for the application. Wrote database queries using SQL and PLSQL for accessing, manipulating and updating Oracle database. Expertise in Cutting Edge Technologies like EJB, JMS, JTA, XML and Web Sphere MQ Series with good experience in Developing and Deploying Enterprise Java Beans on Application Servers like WebLogic, WebSphere and JBoss. Extensively worked on debugging using Logging Frameworks such as Apache Log4j. Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using JUnit, Log4J, and Cactus. Hands-on experience with Integrated Development Environment IDE IDEs like IBM Eclipse, JBOSS, WSAD, TOAD, Edit Plus. Excellent Technical, Analytical, Problem Solving skills, strict attention to detail and ability to work independently, work within a team environment. Technical Skills Professional Experience Client Staples Duration Jan 2016 to till date Role Sr. JAVA Full Stack Developer Description Staples mainly focuses on developing a Retail application for the Staples Incorporation for selling products such as printer, scanners, floppy, office accessories, sheets etc. The motive of Staplesis to provide quick service to the consumer who needs quick purchase of office accessories both in lesser and bulk quantities. Generation of internal feeds like Coupons, Rebates and Campaigns are additional challenges. It requires technical expertise as well as domain knowledge. Responsibilities Defined and constructed layers, server-side objects and client-side interfaces based on J2EE design patterns, Developed and implemented Swing, spring and J2EE based MVC Model-View-Controller framework for the application. Designed Prototype and project layout skeletons using ReactJS, JQuery and CSSLESS and HTML5. Experienced in developing web-based applications using Java, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML and JavaScript. Implemented the associated business modules integration using spring, and Hibernate data mapping. Used spring dependency injection, annotations and Spring MVC components to implement business layer and navigation part of application RESTful web services using Jersey for JAX-RS implementation. Worked on Rest Web services as well as Node Rest framework for backend services, used Mongo DB NoSQL for database services. Worked on SOA Web Services using SOAP with JAX-WS for transmission of large blocks of XML data over HTTP. Involved in designing and building microservices. Used various jQuery and Bootstrap plug-in like date picker, Bootstrap selectors. Exposed and consumed SOAP based Web Services to communicate between systems. GUI design and development using Java Swing, JFC Used for open source web testing. Used ActiveMQ to improve the stability and scaled the system for more concurrent users. Developed web application and Implemented user interface using Ruby, CSS, HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery. Wrote SQL queries, stored procedures and enhanced performance by running explain plans. Configured and verified AWS workstations as per application requirement Used GWT and Amazon AWS EC2S3EBS for prototyping and subsequent evaluation. Developed UI for internal data aggregation tool using GWT, SmartGWT, Tomcat, RCPREST services. Developed Microservices using spring boot, spring security and deployed to jwt cloud. Configured Swagger-UI registered Micro service with Eureka server to monitor service health check from Spring Boot admin console. Used Micro service architecture, with Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers. Developed quality code adhering to Scala coding Standards and best practices. Used Java Messaging Services JMS for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report. Experience in Single Page Application SPA using AngularJS, created Multiple  Nested Views, Routing, Controllers, Services and Custom Directives, Node.js, Bower, Grunt Developed new features for a REST SOA backend in Clojure and led evolution of an entire backend architecture. Worked on Rest Web services as well as Node Rest framework for backend services, used Mongo DB NoSQL for database services. Developed the Web application using Spring MVC, Ext-JS, Html and JavaScript. Created and configured new JIRA projects and worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA projects. Used log4j for logging and SVN for version control. Brief experience on implementing the AngularJS in creating animations based on CSS classes for a new requirement surfaced for the client. Creating a responsive web application integrating Twitter Bootstrap with Angular JS and media queries. Developed Maven scripts and developed builds using Maven and continuous integration servers like Jenkins. UsedMaven goals for testing and packaging the various components and releasing on Apache Archiva for easy accessibility and maintenance within the organization Consumed Web Services for getting the credit card information from third party application. Use of data structures and algorithms for time and memory complexity reduction Used JMeter to test performance of SOAP protocol. Used Junit and TestNG testing Framework as a test runner with Selenium. Used to test performance both on static and dynamic resources using JMeter. EnvironmentJava, J2EE, JDK 1.71.8, RCP, AWS SDK, Ext JS, Git, GWT, Swing, JFC, Spring 4.x, AWS SNSSQS, hibernate4.x, Core Java,Scala, SOAPRest, Web Services, Python 2.7, JavaScript, clojure, UML, HTML5, CSS, SASS, RAD 7, WAS 8 WSDL, SDKs, JIRA 5.x6.x, JAXB, Linux, JAX-WS, JAX RPC, JMS, JSF, UNIX, Selenium NOSQLMongoDB, Angular JS, ReactJS, AJAX, Apache JMeter, JQuery, JUnit, Maven, EMR, Oracle 10g. Client Apple, SunnyVale, CA Duration May 2014 to Dec 2015 Role Sr. JAVA Full Stack Developer Description Agent Toolbox is the new tool that the ASCS Apple Store Customer Support agents use now for all support calls - intuitive and user friendly. All the 1-800-MY-APPLE calls will be routed to the Agent Toolbox and the calls are taken care by the APPLE Employees. This is a single web page application and works on the Safari browser only as of now. Based on Service Oriented Architecture. This project was implemented to drive down AHT average call handling time and reduce agent-training time. Responsibilities Developed the J2EE application based on the Service Oriented Architecture. Used Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, Session Facade and DAO. Developed using new features of Java 1.7 Annotations, Generics, enhanced for loop and Enums. Developed screens using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX. Creation of prototypes using Inkspace and Quickview 3.0 Developing and editing user Interface Screens using JSP, HTML5.0, JavaScript and node.js. Improve presentation of webpages CSS 3.0, Adobe Flash and JQuery plug - ins. Designed SOA integration using Apache CXF. Enabled rapid service tier development. Used AngularJS for DOM Manipulation, Filters, and Directives. Web application backend REST API utilizing AngularJSandOracle. Used Twitter Bootstrap to create responsive web pages which can be displayed properly in different screen sizes. Worked on Cross-browser Compatibility of UI pages. Implemented for internet browsers such as Chrome, Firefox, and IE 891011. Debugged the application using Chrome Inspector, Firebug, IE Tester and many other debugging tools. Created and injected Spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes. Used Spring Inheritance to develop beans from already developed parent beans. Implemented SOA to develop REST Based Web services using Apache Axis. Developed Service layer Using Spring, AspectJ and persistence layer using Hibernate. Designed spring boot mechanism without configuration XMLs and replaced it with Java classes. Involved in implementing DAO layers using JPA standards and Hibernate API interfaces. Built spring based Java and Scala micro services to support enterprise web application. Created SQL queries, PLSQL Stored Procedures, Functions for the Database layer by studying the required business objects and validating them with Stored Procedures using DB2 and JPA with Hibernate provider. Extensively used Hibernate mappings, HQL, EHCache, Query, Criteria, Lazy loadingTransactions and Lockings. Developed RESTWeb Services clients to consume those Web Services as well other enterprise wide Web Services. Exposed the Web Services to the client applications by sharing the WSDLs. Used DAO pattern to fetch data from database using Hibernate to carry out various database. Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions, cache concepts. Modified the Spring Controllers and Services classes so as to support the introduction of Spring framework. Created logical and physical data models putting to practice, concepts of normalization and RDBMS. Used XStreamAPI to transfer data back and forth between Spring MVC and Ext JS. Jenkins to automate the build and deploy process. Developed and consumed Apache CXF based Web Services as part of Payments Application. Focused on Test Driven Development thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before actually writing the functionality. Used Rational Application Developer RAD which is based on Eclipse, to develop and debug application code. Used Log4j utility to generate run-time logs. SVN was used for project management and version management. Deployed the application on Websphere 7.0 application server. Environment J2EE, Spring framework, Spring MVC, Hibernate 3.x, Angular JS, jQuery, JSON, JSF, Servlets 2.3, JDBC, AJAX, Web services, SOAP, XML, Java Beans, XStream, NetTool, Apache CXF 2.6, Apache POI, Ext JS, JQuery, JavaScript, Oracle 10g, IBM RAD, Websphere7.0, Agile Methodology, Design Patterns, SVN, Apache Maven, JUnit, HtmlUnit, XSLT, HTMLDHTML. Client BCBS, Richardson, TX Duration Nov 2012  Apr 2014 Project Small Group Renewal RoleSr. Java Full Stack Developer Description Small Group RenewalSGR is the automated solution for streamlining the health insurance sales process. BA Renewals delivers information and tools created to assist with reselling or reacquiring existing accounts, presenting additional plan offerings and alternatives, and monitoring anniversary effective dates to reduce the forfeiture of any business opportunities. Workflow, Single Rating Engine SRE, and other relevant common services are used to enable Renewing process automation. Responsibilities Involved in complete development of Agile Development MethodologySCRUM, developed and tested the application during various iterations. Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle SDLC such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design, development, testing, and monitoring. Spring JMS was used to connect to ActiveMQ for the purpose of interconnecting various internal systems. Java Messaging ServiceJMS - IBM MQ Series provides independent and potentially non-concurrent applications on a distributed system to communicate with each other, Used to achieve SOA. Involved in fitting the Data power SOA web sphere appliance in the web services for the ease of error handling and load balancing. Tested Web Services using SOAP UI and involved in composing test suites for operations. Used Collection Framework and Multithreading for performing cache Operation. Developed, and debugged the EJB with WebSphere Application server. Developed the middle tier using EJBs, Java Servlets. Developed session, entity beans and message driven beans. Designed and developed web pages using with HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, Ajax, JSP and JQuery based on the W3C standards and Web 2.0. Achieved role control functionality mainly by retrieving JSON data from AJAX and combining the retrieved data with jQuery to manipulate nodes in DOM tree. Utilized a combination of regular expression and jQuery Validation Plugin to conduct input check. While in the newer sub project, conducted validation in AngularJS way. Wrote Oracle PLSQL Stored procedures, triggers Involved in Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose. MQ was used to provide a single unifying transport that reduces cost and maintenance efforts, including support for HTTP, REST and JMS. Created test cases to validate Regular Expressions. Developed reports in an excel format using POI-HSSF API. Used XMLXSLT for transforming common XML format and SAML for Single Sign-On. Designed configuration XML Schema for the application. Used Regular Expressions to Serializable for pattern classes. Developed Maven scripts and developed builds using Maven and continuous integration servers like Jenkins. Used XMLHttp Request Object to provide asynchronous communication as part of AJAX implementation. Experience with KORN based scripts as part of triggering UNIX and J2EE based Jobs. Extensively used various Spring Framework modules like DIIOC, Bean Wiring, Inheritance, Auto Wiring, JDBC Templates, AOP and Spring Quartz Schedulers for Jobs. Used SOAP for Web Services by exchanging XML data between applications over HTTP. WSDL was used for publishing Web Service interfaces. Junit tests were written to test each module in the application. Wrote Ant Scripts to automate the build and deploy process. Prepared the test plans and executed test cases for unit, integration and system testing using different automation tools like jUnit, Soap UI and Fiddler. Performance Testing experience using Jmeter. Environment Core JavaJ2EE, Servlets, JSP, Java Spring, JSTL, EJB, JMS, XML, XSLT, JDBC, AJAX, IBM WebSphere Application Server 7.0, Oracle 10g, WSAD, IBM MQ, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Eclipse, UML, Rational Rose, Windows XP, CVS, JUnit, ANT, Adobe Flex, Visio. Client JPMorgan Chase, NYC, NY Duration Feb 2011  Oct 2012 Project Prime Brokerage  Financing Technology - PB CSR Dashboard Position Sr. Java Developer Description CSR Dashboard is an internal facing application, accessed via the Prime View portal,which is currently designed to serve the CSR who need to provide a proactive and superior client service with Option Assignment events, with Corporate Actions and Money Transfer events to follow. This tool provides a CSR centric view of all key events for all families supported by a CSR, Team Lead or Area Manager. As of today Option Exercise and Corporate Actions have been on boarded. Responsibilities Worked on Agile Scrum development lifecycle with 2-week sprints, fast-paced deadlines to implement new features and get it deployed to prod every 2 months. Used Spring Framework for dependency injection, integration of Hibernate using Spring ORM support, development of RESTful web services to give JSON output. Used Spring MVC front controller pattern to handle requests starting with dispatcher servlet to handle incoming requests. Configured Spring MVC from scratch using XML configurations, namespace handling, spring security set upand giving access to resources. Used the concepts of Internationalization and Localization using Spring. Involved in writing code to transform XML documents using JAXB Marshalling and Unmarshalling using Spring Injections. Used Hibernate in persistence layer, written hibernate mappings using Annotations, HQL, Criteria and Named Queries. Involved in Design and Development of RESTful API. REST web services are created using spring with Jackson Mappers to exchange data using JSON data structure. Used SVN for source Version Control, resolving code conflicts and merging code base. Deployed the application in Web Logic Application Server. Strong experience in writing PLSQL queries and performance tuning. DevelopedUnixShell scripts to automate repetitive database processes. Used Maven for dependency management, build applications and deploy to the containers, application servers and create versions in the repository. Involved in SDLC and moving project from one stage to another such as testing, UAT and production. Designed and developed the UI using Node.js, Angular JS, JQuery, Ext JS, Backbone JS, HTML 5, CSS 3, bootstrap and JSP. EnvironmentCore Java, Java 1.6, Spring, Hibernate, SVN, Apache, Eclipse 3.3, JSP, JNDI, Log4j, JUnit, XML, XSD, Angular JS, Node.js, JQuery, HTML 5, bootstrap, JavaScript, Web Logic Application Server, Apache Tomcat 6.0, Oracle, Windows XP, REST API, NetBeans, UNIX. Client American Family Insurance Madison, WI Duration Nov 2009 Jan 2011 Role Sr. JavaJ2EE Developer Description Sales Tool Project is an Online Auto Insurance Sales tool used to estimate the quote, calculate the premium as per state rules and sell the quote to customers. Customers can access this tool from www.amfam.com and buy insurance online, Sales Tool Rewrite project is an enhancement and Integration project with the following major business requirements.Implement a new Online Auto Insurance Sales process flow for quoting to reduce the number of questionsresponses necessary to provide a quote premium. Responsibilities Analysis and understanding of business requirements. Involved in the architecture team for design and implementation of system. Developed application using Spring MVC, JSP, JSTL and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate. Developed Custom Tags to represent data in a desired unique table format and to implement paging Logic. Used JavaScript for client-side validations, and AJAX to create interactive front-end GUI Created the web application using MVC Struts framework. Designed developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate and performed configuration of Struts, Application Framework. Developed views and controllers for client and controllers for client and manager modules using Spring MVC and Spring Core. Developed user interfaces using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and Ajax with JSON. Business logic is implemented using Spring Core and Hibernate. Data Operations are performed using Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate and Implemented HibernateTemplate and criteria API for Queryingdatabase. Developed Exception handling framework and used log4J for logging. Developed WebServices using XML messages that use SOAP. Created WSDL and the SOAP envelope. Developed and modified database objects as per the requirements. Involved in Unit integration, bug fixing, acceptance testing with test cases, Code reviews. Environment Java, J2EE, JSP, Spring, Hibernate, JMS, XML, Web Services, SOAP, AJAX, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Log4J, JUnit, Maven, WebSphere, Application Server, Eclipse, Oracle. Client ValueLabs, Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh Duration May 2008-Oct 2009 Role JavaJ2EE Developer Description BSHM builds a system, which helps both Doctor and patient in an efficient manner by providing information about the availability of Doctors, maintaining patient records according to their visit and generating reports of patients of their medications, Lab Findings, Problems List and serves the pharmacy maintenance also. The information may be very critical from both doctors and patients point of view, BSHM maintains a safe and secure database system for patients. BSHM stores patients records efficiently and make them easily retrievable. The whole system modules are Appointments, patient chart, Reports, pharmacy, Administration. Responsibilities Involved in Analysis and Design of the Project, which is based on MVC Model-View-Controller Architecture and Design Patterns. Involved in developing prototypes of the product. CreatedUML Use Cases, Sequence diagrams, Class diagrams and Page flow diagrams using Rational Rose. Designed GUI Components using Tiles frame work and Validation frame work. Designed and developed UI using HTML, JSP and Struts where users have all the items listed for auctions. Developed ANT scripts for builds and deployments. Developed Controller Servlets, Action and Form objects for process of interacting with Oracle database and retrieving dynamic data. Responsible for coding SQL Statements and Stored procedures for back end communication using JDBC. Parsing of XML documents was done using SAX and DOM and XML transformation was done using XSLT. Wrote JavaScript validations on the client side. Involved in writing Detail Design Documents with UML Specifications. Involved in unit testing and system testing and also responsible for preparing test scripts for the system testing. Responsible for packaging and deploying components in to the Tomcat. Used java IO to create reports, which were mailed to be mailed to manager every hour. Responsible for performance tuning of the product and eliminating memory leakages in the product. Participated in Code Review meetings with developers. Environment CoreJava, Java Beans, JSP, Jbuilder, Javascript, Servlets, JDBC, LOG4J, XML, XSLT, HTML, Struts, Tiles, SAX,DOM, Tomcat, UNIX, Oracle.