Vijetha Email reddy.vijethaagmail.com Contact 913890-3489 Summary Over 8 years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, implementation and execution of test cases of software application using JavaJ2EE technologies. Experienced in Java Application Development, Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented Design OOD, Object Oriented Analysis OOA, Object Oriented Programming OOP and its implementation. Experienced with developing rich user interface applications using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript, JQuery, Angular 4.0,2.0,JS, Node JS, React JS, Backbone JS, Twitter Bootstrap, JQuery Mobile, XML, JSON that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible Experience working with various SDLC methodologies like Agile Scrum, RUP and Waterfall Model. Experienced in developing front end applications using HTML, HTML5, XML, XHTML, DHTML, CSS, CSS3, Bootstrap, SAAS, LESS, JavaScript, DOM, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, and JSP. Expertise in implementing the persistence logic using JDBC, JPA, Spring JDBC, Hibernate, iBATIS. Good Understanding of Document Object Model DOM and DOM Functions. Design and implement a Web based content management utilizing XML, JAXB, DOM, XSLT, XPath and JavaScript for data generation and presentation with JSF. Strong Experience in JavaScript MVC design pattern such as Angular JS, Backbone JS and Ember JS. Experience in server side scripting with Node JS, Express JS. Good Knowledge in JavaScript library used for building reusable UI components like React JS. Worked on responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React.js. Strong experience in working on JavaScript environment like MEAN Mongo, Express, Angular, Node Strong knowledge on OOPs concepts, Core Java, Multithreading, Exception handling, and Collection Framework. Strong programming skills towards developing and implementing complete n-tier web based application systems using JavaJ2EE technologies- JDBC, JSP, Servlets, Enterprise Java Beans, Struts, JSF, Spring, SOA implementation, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, JNDI, XML, JAXB, JSON, WSDL. Have considerable knowledge in developing UNIX shell scripts and pearl scripts. Strong knowledge in implementing IOC and Dependency Injection features in various aspects of Spring Framework. Good knowledge on the Spring Modules like Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Spring Batch, Spring Web Flow, Spring Security and Spring Boot. Having Handful experience in using OAuth 2 for Microservices security. Having knowledge on JMS MQs like Apache Kafka, Rabbit MQ, IBM MQ and Active MQ. Experience with WebApplication servers Tomcat, Web Logic and JBOSS Good knowledge in using Restful framework like JAX-RS Framework, SOAP Web services using JAX-WS, Apache CXF, Jersey. Good knowledge in using Amazon Web Services Amazon EC2, Amazon Simple DB, Amazon RDS, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, Amazon SQS, and AWS Identity, Pivotal Cloud and IBM Web Sphere. Defined AWS Security Groups which acted as virtual firewalls that controlled the traffic allowed to reach one or more AWS EC2 instances. Knowledge on various Docker components like Docker Engine, Hub, Machine, Compose and Dockers Registry. Extensively worked on beginner patches for Docker Engine. Experience in using Drools rules engine for defining business rules and Validations. Experience in using different version controllingtracking systems GIT, CVS, Subversion, and Rational Clear Case. Experienced in working with multiple databases like Oracle 1011g, SQL Server, NoSQL Mongo DB, Cassandra, PostgreSQL, MySQL and DB2. Experience using JIRA and Bugzilla5.0.x 4.4.x as issue and bug tracking tools. Experienced with J-Unit Framework4.x, Jasmine and Mockito for developing test cases using Test driven development TDD approach and log4j for logging. Expertise in using NoSQL databases like Mongo DB, Apache Cassandra 2.0.12 as a distributed database management system and writing queries to it using CQL 3.0. Experienced in performing unit testing using JUnit, Mockito integration and deployment of applications using tools such as ANT, Jenkins and Maven  debugging through log4j. Experience in Backing up databases using Mongo DB backup facility in OPS manager Experience in using Ant1.x and Maven3.x for build automation. In-depth knowledge of PLSQL with the experience in constructing the triggers, tables, functions, user defined data type, procedures etc Good knowledge in JavaScript Task Runner like Gulp, Grunt for magnification, compilation, unit testing. Strong knowledge on JavaScript Unit testing with Jasmine, Karma, Protractor, Mocha and Chai Excellent verbal, written communication and presentation skills, problem solving and conflict resolution skills. Technical Skills WORK EXPERIENCE Sr Java Fullstack Developer June 2016 to Present PG  E Corporation-Dinuba, CA Roles  Responsibilities Involved in the complete SDLC software development life cycle of the application from requirement analysis to testing. Involved in Analysis, design and coding on Java and J2EE Environment. Implemented Spring Framework for the project. Build and Release Management Built application logic using Python 2.7 Responsible for Creating custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of core Angular 4, Polymer JS. Created and maintain web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY, Java, J2EE and also responsible for Designing of Web pages including Ajax controls and XML. Created and managed microservices. Microservices were being used as a strategy to gradually replace a core monolithic application while still adding business features Applied advanced HTML5, JavaScript, and CSS3 to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces using material design components in Polymer JS. All the functionality is implemented using Spring IO  Spring Boot, Microservices and Hibernate ORM. Created and injected Spring Services, Spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes. Followed agile methodology for developing the application. Created continuous integration builds using Jenkins and deployed on app server. Extensively used spring framework and Apache CXF for producing SOAP and REST web services as a part of the project development Spring MVC Framework IOC Inversion of Control design pattern is used to have relationships between application components. Application is Open Source on GitHub and developed using Eclipse, GWT and GAE for cloud based backend data. Programmed the Event handling for DOJO Widgets to accept user inputs and validate it. Responsible for validating user actions on the client side and provided responsive feedback using Polymer JS, Angular 4, and predix components. Implementing Webservices using JSON. Developed various generic JavaScript functions used for validations. Designed and developed UI capabilities and J2EE server based services. Using GIT for Source Control and Version Management. Focused on Test Driven Development TDD thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before actually writing the functionality. Used JavaScript testing frameworks, Jasmine, Karma. Communicated updates in daily scrum meetings using Rally software. Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly. Extensively used Ajax calls to send parameters and fetch data based on the user-triggered events. Manipulated data to both send and fetch data from the server through GET, DELETE and POST requests. Regularly worked with the MEAN stacks and used GIT daily on a Mac OS. Used SOCOCO for the daily standups, power programming, and team communication. Handled response data from Restful WebServices using XML, JSON and JQuery to update UI Interacted with java controllers JQuery, Ajax, and JSON to writeread data from back end systems. Involved in writing test plans, Test Cases and Test Scripts using selenium Designed and developed Test ScenarioTest CasesTest steps for various Business Servicesmethods covering both positive and negative testing. Used SOAPUI for testing Web Services, inspection of WSDL files, generation of SOA envelopes, and acceleration of many other common XML tasks encountered during development of Web-Service enabled applications. Configured Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, and Maven created Selenium automation scripts in java using JUnit. Environment Java jdk, JEE, Java 8, JSP, Python, WebLogic Application Server 11g10.3, IBM RAD, HTML5, CSS3, Angular 4, polymer JS, AJAX, JSON, Node JS, React JS, Microservices, Multithreading, Servlets, JMS, JVM, XML, Restful WebServices, JQuery UI, Maven, Selenium, Apache CXF, Spring MVC, JavaScript, GIT, SOAP, Mongo DB, J2EE, AWS, JSP, Oracle 11g, Eclipse 3.5, JUnit 4.4, Agile methodology, AWS, Git, JSP, Apache Tomcat, Jasmine, Karma. JAVA FULL STACK DEVELOPER August 2014 to May 2016 Cerner corporation-Kansas city, MO Roles  Responsibilities Involved in Requirements and Analysis Understanding the requirements of the client and the flow of the application as well as the application Framework. Developed Front End pages of the application using HTML5, CSS3 using LESS, Angular 2.0. Used Less.js pre-processor to create importable and reusable style sheets, processed on server-side. Created controllers and view pages along with Bootstrap and HTML5 for dynamic web application. Designed and developed the original prototype for a highly-complex, interactive, graphical, web user-interface using standards-compliant JavaScript ECMA SCRIPT 6 Used AWS SDK for connection to Amazon S3 buckets as it is used as the object storage service to store and retrieve the media files related to the application Document Object Model DOM manipulation performed using JavaScript and Angular Js. Involved in developing the Angular JS MVC framework for the Single Page Application development. Web application development for backend system using Angular 2.0 with cutting edge HTML5 and CSS3 techniques. Used features in Angular 2.0 such as data binding, ng-route for routing, custom filters, and custom directives to meet business requirements. Used Bootstrap components of Angular-UI like carousel, collapse, dropdown, and tabs to develop dynamic responsive Web Application. Used spring boot properties like actuators and health checkers to enhance micro service implementations. Deployed Spring Boot based microservices Dockers container using Amazon EC2 container services and using AWS admin console. Developed Restful service interface using Spring Boot to the underlying Agent Services API and Implemented Restful web services. Used JSON response modulation in rest services using JAX-RS to make it more generic for our team to consume the services. Designing and developed Microservices using MEAN Stack Node.js, Mongo DB, Angular JS Elastic search on Private Cloud Open Stack Platform using Express.js. Build prototype for various required services such as Scheduling, Logging and Notification Service using third party Node JS based JavaScript library. Used Express JS which is fast, assertive, essential and moderate web framework of Node JS that helps manage a server and routes. Used Ajax Express for automatically AJAX requests handling middleware for Express framework. Configuration file and Node JS is used at back end to interact with Mongo DB using Mongoose connector. Used Socket.IO for the Node server to auto-reconnection and disconnection support. Implemented MySQL Database as the storage system for the Restful Webservices. Used Hibernate mappings, relationships between tables and entity classes to access and update information in the database. Hibernate Query Language HQL was used to perform various queries in the database. Used Hibernate Core Interfaces configuration, transactional, session and criteria. Developed data models using Hibernate POJOs and configuring Hibernate persistence layer. Worked with NoSQL database Mongo DB and developed custom Mongo DB applications specific to client needs. Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly. Used Jenkins for continuous deployment and integration of the build and release process Dealt with Gulp to perform magnification, compilation and Bower to maintain package dependencies. Performs UNIT testing with JASMINE and KARMA, and develops web services using RESTful API. Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging and pushing the images. Involved in running Selenium automation scripts and updating the scripts according to enhanced requirements using Selenium WebDriver. Done unit testing using JUnit. Designed and implemented scalable, secure cloud architecture based on Amazon Web Services AWS Configured AWS EC2 instances, S3 Buckets and Cloud Formation Services based on the business requirements for different applications. Involved in behavior driven development using SCRUM framework under Agile Methodology. Used MAVEN tool for building the project and managing the dependencies in it. Developed and maintained automated regression test cases in Selenium using Java programming language. Implemented test automation for web applications from front to backend using Selenium. Responsible for creating requests and building test scenarios for the web services project. Tested WebServices XML SOAP and RestFul services using SoapUI 2.5. Environment Java 1.7J2EE, Spring MVC, HTML5, XML, CSS3, LESS, JSON, JavaScript, Angular 2.0, Oracle 11g, Tomcat 5x6x, Bootstrap, Maven, Hibernate, MySQL, Multithreading, Eclipse, AWS SDK, RESTful, Backbone JS, DB2, Cassandra, AJAX, JSON, Node JS, Express JS, AWS, Microservices, Restful API, JAX-RS, React JS, Node Js, Gulp, NPM, AWS, Apache Kafka, GitHub, NoSQL, Mongo DB, Jasmine, karma, Selenium, Soap UI 2.5. Sr. JavaJ2EE Developer October 2012 to July 2014 FedEx Corporation-Memphis, TN Roles  Responsibilities Implemented SOA architecture using Enterprise Service Bus ESB. Configured business applications in XML bean definition files using SPRING. Worked on Hibernate ORM. Created Hibernate XML files and Java class files to map the object relation Mappings. Used Hibernate query language. Provided data persistence by objectrelational mapping solution via Hibernate for application save, update, delete operations. Implement single sign on and LDAP for login authentication. Developed the application using Spring MVC framework and IOC for dependency injection Used Hibernate ORM framework with spring framework for data persistence and transaction management. Worked on presentation layers using Angular JS, AJAX, Backbone JS, HTML, JSP, java script and XML. Created UI mock up screens and developed screens with JSP, CSS and custom tag libraries Created custom components using JQuery and JavaScript which can be used by all the maintenance applications in MSS Used REST Controllers to replace the existing operations layer which acts as bridge between business layer and the UI. Developed Web API using NodeJS and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances. Developed a framework to consume REST Webservices using Spring Rest libraries Used JUnit framework to write test cases for unit testing, Used Power mock  Mockito libraries to create mock objects to verify the service logic Developed Copy Tool - a standalone application using javaFx to copy data from one environment to another environment. Used Spring core annotations for Dependency injection and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for micro services. Used Apache Camel and CXF in the JBoss Fuse ESB as the integration platform for SOA Services. Used Angular JS for data-binding, and Node JS for back-end support with APIs. Worked on JPA for persisting the objects into the system. Involved in finding the Memory Leaks and adjusting the JVM Heap Sizes and GC Parameters using JProfiler 5.1. Worked on Axis implementation and used SOAPUI to test the SOAP. Worked on XML, XSD and XSLT to parse the request and create the new one based on the specification. Developed generic Java packages to produce and consume JMS messages through topics and queues in asynchronous message processing with guaranteed delivery. Used IBM MQ Series as the JMS provider. Utilized Core J2EE design patterns such as Singleton and Data Access Object DAO in the implementation of the services. Responsible for writing SQL Queries and Procedures using DB2. Involved in writing test plans, Test Cases and Test Scripts using quality center. Responsible for writing JUnit test cases and Peer level testing. Improved database performance by recognizing and rewriting slow queries. Build  Deployment in Websphere Application Server. Solid deployment experience on the UNIX platform. Created UML diagrams such as Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams using IBM Rational Rose. Environment Java1.7, J2EE, JavaFx, JSP, Servlets, Spring 1.2, WebSphere Application Server 7.0, Oracle 9x, SOA, JMS, JMX, IBM MQ Series 5.3, SOAPUI, Hibernate, XML, XSD, Spring, JUnit, Backbone JS, MS SQL Server 2008, JPA, JTA, JDBC 2.0, Maven, PLSQL Developer,DB2, UNIX, Log4J, UML and Agile, Web Logic 9.0, Angular JS. JAVAJ2EE DEVELOPER October 2010 to September 2012 Bank of New York Mellon Jersey City, NJ Responsibilities Designed and developed UML Diagrams, Use cases, Class, Sequence and activity Diagrams. Worked in Agile methodology environment and participated in Scrum sessions in designing, developing, implementing and testing the distributed applications. Developed detailed design documents for all the functional modules of the application to be used by the testing team to setup test cases. Migration of Web Sphere application server to Tomcat application and used Eclipse IDE and deployed the application on TOMCAT server. Developed dynamic and interactive we based applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript languages. Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate to interact with the MySQL database and performed CRUD operations. Used web logic as the app server for deploying the applications and Used JDBC as the data access layer connecting to Oracle DB. Designed and Developed Web Services using technologies UDDI, WSDL, SOAP to communicate to the other modules. Used Maven automated build scripts to compile and package the application and implemented Log4j for the project. Configured the XML file for spring security injection to ensure the back-end security by discriminating the role of users as well as access authority for the URIs and server-side assets. Implemented Spring MVC, which includes writing Controller classes for handling requests, processing form submissions and performed validations using Commons validator. Involved in developing interface for web pages like user registration, login, and registered access control for users depending on logins using HTML and JavaScript. Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate, used HQL and SQL for querying databases. Involved in Group presentations, Poster presentations and involved in bugs fixing and used Log4j for writing int application and error logs. Used JDBC API to connect to the database and performed create, Read, Update and Delete operations to insert, retrieve drop and delete the data as per the requirement. Involved in project migration from Swing application to web integration using Struts web framework based on MVC architecture. Debugging for Stored Procedures in the application and using SQL queries to access Oracle, DB2 and SQL Server 2008 R2. Written test cases using JUnit as a testing framework and responsible for preparing test scripts for system. Developed the code for asynchronous update to web page using JavaScript and Ajax. Created and consumed SOAP based Web services and used SOAPUI to send and receive XML data and Worked with JMS Queues for sending messages in point-to-point mode. Environment Java 1.6, C, C, servlets, JSP, JMS, Struts, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Oracle 10g, JUnit 3.x, SOAP, XML, weblogic Server 9x10x, SQL, Tomcat 6x, Hibernate, Angular JS, Node JS, Spring, GIT, DB2, SOAP, JUnit, PLSQL, MS SQL Server2008, Structs, Spring, DA0, XML, Log4j, Websphere Application Server 7.0, SQL. JAVAJ2EE DEVELOPER March 2009 to August 2010 Prod apt Solutions, Chennai, Tamil Nadu Responsibilities Involved in creating Use cases, Class Diagrams and Interaction Diagrams. Designed the UML diagrams based on the OOAD principles. Developed EJBs and deployed them on IBM WebSphere Application server. Developed the Action classes, Action forms and Action Servlet for web tier. Developed the Business logic on the web tier using EJB Stateless Session beans. Developed business layer components using enterprise java beans EJB Developed the modules using Servlets, Java2EE and JDBC for connecting with DB2 Database Implemented Multithreading feature for processing the multiple requests to achieve high performance. Implemented Web Services to integrate between different applications using REST services using JAX-WS. Implemented Singleton Design Pattern for database connectivity. Implemented c3po connection properties for maintaining database connections. Hands-on writing Stored Procedures, functions, triggers, DDL, DML SQL queries. Created custom PLSQL procedures to read data from flat files to dump to DB2 database using SQL loader. Created tables, views, Types, triggers, complex join queries, stored procedures, and functions and modifications to existing database structure as required for addition of new features. Involved in Designing the Database Schema and writing the complex SQL queries. Accessed stored procedures and functions using JDBC Callable statements. Worked on IBM MQ to simplify integration and accelerate application deployment. Worked on web-based reporting system with HTML, JavaScript and JSP. Deployed the project in Linux environment. Used ANT build tool for compilation and generation of war file. Environment Java, J2EE, HTML, PLSQL, Webservices, Multithreading, Hibernate, spring, JSPs, Eclipse, IBM WebSphere 6.1, AXIS, Java Script, Subversion, IBM DB2, Clarity, Maven, Rational Rose, Windows XP.