Bapuji
Sr. Hadoop Developer
Phone: +1(224)-706-0020   
Email: bapuji.dbj@gmail.com 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY:
Over 8+ years of experience including 4 years of Big Data Ecosystem related technologies with full project development, implementation and deployment.
Strong Experience working with various Hadoop ecosystem components like, Map Reduce, HDFS, Hive, Sqoop, Pig, Flume, and Oozie.
Strong Knowledge on Architecture of Distributed systems and Parallel processing frameworks. 
In-depth understanding of MapReduce Framework and Spark execution model.
Worked extensively on fine-tuning long running Spark Applications to utilize better parallelism and executor memory for more caching.
Strong experience working with both batch and real-time processing using Spark framework.
Expertise in developing production ready Spark applications utilizing Spark-Core, Data frames, Spark-SQL, Spark-ML and Spark-Streaming API's.
Hands on experience in installing, configuring and deploying Hadoop distributions in cloud environments (Amazon Web Services).
Expertise in developing production ready Spark applications utilizing Spark-Core, Data frames, Spark-SQL, Spark-ML and Spark-Streaming API's.
Worked on building real time data workflows using Kafka, Spark streaming and HBase. 
Worked extensively on Hive for building complex data analytical applications.
Very good understanding of Partitions, bucketing concepts in Hive and designed both Managed and External tables in Hive to optimize performance.
Used custom serDes like Regex SerDe, JSON SerDe, CSV SerDe etc., in hive to handle multiple formats of data. 
Having knowledge in Apache Ambari platform for securing, managing and monitoring Hadoop clusters.
Experienced in Cluster coordination services through zookeeper.
Strong experience using different columnar file formats like Avro, RCFile, ORC and Parquet formats.
Worked with Sqoop to move (import/export) data from a relational database into Hadoop.
Experience working with Hadoop clusters using Cloudera, Amazon EMR and Hortonworks distributions.
Extensive experience in performing ETL on structured, semi-structured data using Pig Latin Scripts.
Designed and implemented Hive and Pig UDF's using Java for evaluation, filtering, loading and storing of data.
Experienced in job workflow scheduling and monitoring tools like Oozie.
Well versed with UNIX and Linux command line and shell script.
Adequate knowledge and working experience with agile methodology.

TECHNICAL SKILLS:


EDUCATION:
Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science Engineering at JNTU, Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh, India.

WORK EXPERIENCE:

Cigna – Bloomfield, Connecticut                                                             		       Jul’17 – Present 
Role: Hadoop/Spark Developer 

Responsibilities:
Developed Spark applications using Scala utilizing Data frames and Spark SQL API for faster processing of data.
Developed highly optimized Spark applications to perform various data cleansing, validation, transformation and summarization activities according to the requirement
Data pipeline consists Spark, Hive and Sqoop and custom built Input Adapters to ingest, transform and analyze operational data.
Developed Spark jobs and Hive Jobs to summarize and transform data.
Used Spark for interactive queries, processing of streaming data and integration with NoSQL database HBase, Cassandra for interactive access patterns.
Involved in converting Hive queries into Spark transformations using Spark Data Frames in Scala.
Automated creation and termination of AWS EMR clusters using AWS, java sdk.
Built real time data pipelines by developing Kafka producers and spark streaming applications for consuming.
Ingested syslog messages to Kafka.
Worked on Apache Airflow to schedule single and sometimes complex chains of tasks that depend on each other on regular intervals.
Handled importing data from relational databases into HDFS using Sqoop and performing transformations using Hive and Spark.
Having knowledge in Apache Ambari platform for securing, managing and monitoring Hadoop clusters.
Exported the processed data to the relational databases using Sqoop, to further visualize and generate reports for the BI team.
Experienced in cluster coordination services through Zookeeper.
Installed, tested and deployed monitoring solutions with Splunk services.
Used Hive to analyze the partitioned and bucketed data and computed various metrics for reporting.
Developed Hive scripts in Hive QL to de-normalize and aggregate the data.
Scheduled and executed workflows in Oozie to run various jobs.
Designing & creating ETL jobs through Talend to load huge volumes of data into Cassandra, Hadoop Ecosystem and relational databases.

Environment: Hadoop, Spark, Hive, Java, Scala, Maven, Impala, Oozie, Oracle, Ambari, GitHub, Tableau, Unix, Hortonworks, Apache Airflow Kafka, Zookeeper, Sqoop, Cassandra, Talend, Splunk, HBase.

Qualcomm -- San Diego, CA                                                                   		          Dec’16 – Jun’17                                                                                            
Role: Hadoop/Spark Developer

Responsibilities:

Part of Big Data Center of Excellence (CoE), responsible for designing and building enterprise data analytics platform.
Worked with respective business units in understanding the scope of the analytics requirements.
Performed core ETL transformations in Spark.
Automated data pipelines which involve data ingestion, data cleansing, data preparation and data analytics.
Created end to end Spark applications using Scala to perform various data cleansing, validation, transformation and summarization activities on user behavioral data.
Developed end-to-end data pipeline using FTP Adaptor, Spark, Hive and Impala.
Implemented Spark utilizing Spark-SQL heavily for faster development, and processing of data.  
Exploring with Spark for improving the performance and optimization of the existing jobs in Hadoop using Spark-SQL, Data Frame running in Yarn mode.
Handled importing other enterprise data from different data sources into HDFS using Sqoop and performing transformations using Hive, Map Reduce and then loading data into HBase tables.
Collecting and aggregating large amounts of log data using Flume and staging data in HDFS for further analysis
Wrapper developed in Python for instantiating multithreaded application and running with other applications.
Analyzed the data by performing Hive queries (Hive QL) and running Pig scripts (Pig Latin) to study customer behavior.
Data warehousing, experience in design, development and testing, implementation and support of enterprise data warehouse.
Used Hive to analyze the partitioned and bucketed data and compute various metrics for reporting.
Created components like Hive UDFs for missing functionality in HIVE for analytics.
Worked on various performance optimizations like using distributed cache for small datasets, Partition, Bucketing in Hive and Map Side joins.
Created Oozie workflows and coordinators to automate data pipelines daily, weekly and monthly.
Automated creation and termination of AWS EMR clusters using AWS, java sdk.

Environment: AWS EMR, Hadoop, Spark, Hive, Sqoop, HBase, UNIX, Talend, Pig, Linux, Java, Scala, Python, Ambari, Zookeeper.
Hortonworks

McKesson - Alpharetta, GA                                                                   		        Dec’15 – Nov’16
Hadoop/Spark Developer

Responsibilities:

Developed multithreaded Java based Input adaptors for ingesting click stream data from external sources like ftp server and S3 buckets on daily basis.
Created various spark applications using Scala to perform various enrichment of these click stream data combined with enterprise data of the users.
Implemented batch processing of jobs using Spark Scala API.
Developed Sqoop scripts to import/export data from Oracle to HDFS and into Hive tables. 
Stored the data in columnar formats using Hive.
Involved building and managing NoSQL Database models using HBase.
Worked in Spark to read the data from Hive and write it to Hbase.
Optimized the Hive tables using optimization techniques like partitions and bucketing to provide better performance with Hive QL queries. 
Worked with multiple file formats like Avro, Sequence, Parquet and Orc.
Converted existing MapReduce programs to Spark Applications for handling semi structured data like JSON files, Apache Log files, and other custom log data.
Loaded the final processed data to HBase tables to allow downstream application team to build rich and data driven applications.
Worked with a team to improve the performance and optimization of the existing algorithms in Hadoop using Spark, Spark -SQL, Data Frame.
Implemented business logic in Hive and written UDF’s to process the data for analysis.
Used Oozie to define a workflow to coordinate the execution of Spark, Hive and Sqoop jobs.
Addressing the issues occurring due to the huge volume of data and transitions.
Designed, documented operational problems by following standards and procedures using JIRA. 

Environment: Java, Hadoop 2.1.0, Map Reduce2, Spark, Unix, Pig 0.12.0, Hive 0.13.0, Linux, Sqoop 1.4.2, Flume 1.3.1, Eclipse, AWS EC2, and Cloudera CDH 4.  

American Home Shield - Memphis, TN                                                		         Dec’14 – Nov’15
Role: Hadoop Developer

Responsibilities:

Migrated the needed data from MySQL into HDFS using Sqoop and importing various formats of flat files in to HDFS.
Mainly worked on Hive queries to categorize data of different claims.
Involved in loading data from LINUX file system to HDFS
Written customized Hive UDFs in Java where the functionality is too complex.
Implemented Partitioning, Dynamic Partitions, Buckets in HIVE.
Designing and creating Hive external tables using shared meta-store instead of derby with partitioning, dynamic partitioning and buckets.
Generate final reporting data using Tableau for testing by connecting to the corresponding Hive tables using Hive ODBC connector.
Responsible to manage the test data coming from different sources
Reviewing peer table creation in Hive, data loading and queries.
Weekly meetings with technical collaborators and active participation in code review sessions with senior and junior developers.
Monitored System health and logs and respond accordingly to any warning or failure conditions.
Gained experience in managing and reviewing Hadoop log files.
Involved in scheduling Oozie workflow engine to run multiple Hive and pig jobs
Involved unit testing, interface testing, system testing and user acceptance testing of the workflow tool.
Created and maintained Technical documentation for launching Hadoop Clusters and for executing Hive queries and Pig Scripts

Environment: Apache Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, Map Reduce, Core Java, Pig, Sqoop, Cloudera CDH4, Oracle, MySQL.

Protective Life - Edina, MN                                                                      		         Oct’13 - Nov’14     
Role: Java Developer

Responsibilities:

Implemented a Web based Application using Servlets, JSP, spring, JDBC, XML. 
Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML file that contains declarations and other   dependent objects declarations. 
Used hibernate to connect to Database to create the DAO layer. 
Developed Application Framework using Model-View-Controller using the technology Spring. 
Used HTML, XHTML, XML, XSLT, XPATH, JSP and Tag Libraries to develop view pages 
Multilayer Applications construction using Open JPA, HTML5, Spring MVC. 
Annotated Spring Architecture (Spring Beans) 
Implemented UNIX shell scripts to migrate various data files to S&P ratings repository 
Implemented smooth pagination capability using JSP to remove existing pagination utility 
Worked on Geo API to provide geological access capability to S&P.com site. 
Involved in Agile process to streamline development process with iterative development. 
Code reviews and Managing the CVS Repository. 
Prepare builds for DEV and UAT environments. 
Participating in the regular team meetings sprint planning meetings, user story review meetings etc. 
Involved in preparing High & low level design docs with UML diagrams using Microsoft VISIO tool. 

Environment: JDK 1.5, XML, HTML, XHTML, JSP, Spring, DAO, Oracle Express edition, Apache ANT, CVS, Junit, UNIX, Log4J, CSS Style Sheets, Apache Tomcat, J2EE, Maven 3

Accenture – Hyderabad, India                                                                 		       Oct’11– Sep’13
Role: Java Developer

Responsibilities:

Involved in Requirements analysis, design, and development and testing.
Involved in setting up the different roles & maintained authentication to the application.
Designed, deployed and tested Multi-tier application using the Java technologies.
Involved in front end development using JSP, HTML & CSS.
Implemented the Application using Servlets
Deployed the application on Oracle Web logic server
Implemented Multithreading concepts in java classes to avoid deadlocking.
Used MySQL database to store data and execute SQL queries on the backend.
Prepared and Maintained test environment.
Tested the application before going live to production.
Documented and communicated test result to the team lead on daily basis.
Involved in weekly meeting with team leads and manager to discuss the issues and status of the projects.

Environment: J2EE (Java, JSP, JDBC, Multi-Threading), HTML, Oracle Web logic server, Eclipse, MySQL, JUnit.

Golan Technologies – Hyderabad, India                                                		          Jun’09 - Sep’11 
Role: Java Developer

Golan Technologies range from turnkey solutions to custom, client-driven solutions in a variety of product categories including website development and platform based applications, demand intelligence and business insight generation. Smart sites have the ability to provide a unified user experience and consistent messaging on websites across the globe, driving a favorable brand impression. 

Responsibilities:

Involved in the analysis, design, implementation, and testing of the project.
Developed UI using HTML, JavaScript, CSS and JSP for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface.
Implemented the end-to-end functionality of the client requirement during the development phase.
Implemented the functionality of mapping entities to the database using Hibernate.
Written SQL queries involved in the JDBC connection in accordance with the business logic.
Performed various levels of unit testing for the entire application using the test cases, which included preparation of detail documentation for the results.
Actively participated in client meetings and taking the inputs for the additional functionality.
Involved in fixing bugs and unit testing with test cases using JUnit.

Environment: J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, JavaScript, CSS, Servlets, MySQL
