Chandler Robert Durairaj Joshua
Business Analyst 

6539 Vista Drive | Apt# 39201, West Des Moines, IA 50266 | 515-257-3838 | chandler.neel@gmail.com

Overall 12 years of IT experience in Business Analysis, Project Management and Business Development.
A Thorough Understanding of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Hands on Experience in various SDLC Methodologies such as Waterfall, Agile, SCRUM and JAD.
In-Depth Knowledge and Experience in Web Applications, Web Design and Mobile Applications development life cycle.
Hands on Experience in managing the project End to End from Requirements Gathering to User Acceptance Testing.
Solid Experience in Requirements Management including Gathering, Analyzing, Detailing and Tracking the Requirements. Skilled in Documenting Requirement using UML, User stories and Wireframes.
Consistently delivered projects and releases on time by coordinating effectively with the stakeholders and development team.
Outstanding experience in Creating Project Plan, Project Schedule, project cost.
Sound Experience in being a SCRUM Master.
Handled Healthcare applications, Ecommerce applications, Android Apps and IOS Apps projects.
Conducting Training sessions throughout the project life cycle to both team and the end users.
Sound Understanding in Quality Analysis procedures.
Sound knowledge and experience in HIPAA security standards, HITECH compliance healthcare systems.
Expertise in handling Provider Billing and Medical/Health Insurance applications.
Strong Understanding and Experience in Documenting Reports using MS Tools like WORD, Excel, PPT, VISIO and MS Project.
Highly motivated team player with excellent analytical, problem solving, interpersonal and communication skills.
Leverage Technical, Business and Financial acumen to communicate with Clients and their teams.


Skills Summary

Microsoft Tools		: MS Project, MS Visio, MS Office
Software Engineering Tools	: Jira, Pencil, PMB, Lucidchart, Balsamiq
SDLC Methodologies		: Waterfall, Agile
Database		    	: MySQL, Microsoft SQL server 2014
Querying Language		: MySQL, MS SQL, PL/SQL
Web Technologies		: HTML, CSS, PHP, SMARTY, ASP.NET
Defect Tracking Tools		: Mantis, Bugzilla
Web & Application Server	: Apache, IIS6.0
Operating Systems		: Windows 2000/XP/Vista/7/8/10, Linux, Android, IOS






Agile Methodology		:  Scrum Master – Atlassian Tools – Jira Dashboard
Conduct Scrum Ceremionies –  Daily Standup, Burndown tracking, Monitoring sprint health, Capacity and sprint planning, Backlog prioritization, Stakeholder Management, Retrospectives and Demos.
			   Coaching the team and Plan Releases. 
Domain Expertise		 : Healthcare, Ecommerce, B2B, B2C, C2C, Supply chain, Finance
Mobile Application		 : Android Apps, IOS apps


Professional Experience

       Weso Infotech - Business Analyst

                         Client: Malvern Institute(Rehabilitation Hospital), Pennsylvania                            Jun 2016– Till Date
Business Analyst

ROC Application Automation
Facilitate elicitation with the operation representatives of differing levels in Pennsylvania to identify the business objectives.
Develop initial business cases and conduct feasibility studies for possible automization of Manual work flows.
Contribute and Maintain work flow diagrams as a base to aid future development work.
Support project proposals by generating reports from existing system.
Created product backlog with project proposals for prioritization.
Produced detailed user stories and acceptance criteria for IT team in India and US.
Designed web UI Prototypes using Pencil and Balsamiq.
Collaborated with QA team construction of test scenario to ensure sufficient testing coverage.
Verify solution demo by development team.
Performed UAT upon completion of development.
Trained first batch of staffs and Produced detailed user guide upon completion.
Integration of Medical billing (Medicare, Medicaid and Q2) with the application.

Grouping and SMS
Proposed and implemented successfully a new Grouping feature and SMS option in existing  ROC Application.
Collaborated with the representatives and end users to find feasible solutions to ensure the new features in fulfilling their demands.
Facilitated the negotiation with Nexmo SMS team in getting the required package customized to user needs and development team.
Acted as a SCRUM Master.

Other projects with this client: ROC IOS APP, ROC FORMS, MALVERN BILLING & SAFETY FORMS
Environment: PHP, MySQL, HTML5.0, CSS, ASP.NET, MSSQL, PL/SQL, JIRA, BALSAMIQ, AGILE, SCRUM, IOS, Healthcare, HIPAA, HITECH



Client: Peertasker, Singapore						      Aug 2015- Jun 2016
Business Analyst

Peertasker Application
Conducted walkthroughs and acted as a bridge between business users, stakeholders and the team to do requirements, quality and risk analysis.
Involved extensively in the inception phase for better understanding the scope of the project, feasibility of the implementation and define the risk factors involved in the project.
Gathered business requirements through JAD sessions and analysis by interviewing users.
Analyzed business requirements and assigned appropriate priorities.
Produced and Documented Use cases, Use case diagrams and Activity Diagrams.
Created user stories, prototype screens.
Effectively maintained the requirements and requirement change requests during various phase of project life cycle.
Monitored sprint health and ensured Backlog has been prioritized.
Trained Technical Teams to have better understanding of the Requirements.
Addressed requirements with in timeframe, feedback on project status.
Weekly status updates to the project manager and the stake holders.
Conducted UAT sessions and trained the end users.

                          Other projects with this client: Peertasker IOS APP    
                          Environment: PHP, MySQL, JAVA, HTML5, CSS, AGILE, JIRA, IOS, SKETCH
                         

Client: Expert Appointment, Baltimore, MD				 Feb 2012- Aug 2014
Business Analyst & Project Manager

Real-time Voice, Video communication with PCPs and Specialists
Performed as a business analyst throughout this enhancement.
Proposed and integrated the real time video communication feature to the existing application.
Collaborated with the Expert Appointment representatives to ensure all the objectives are collected. Coordinated with the SMEs in meeting the demands of end users.
Produced use case diagrams, user stories.
Regular meetings with development teams and stake holders in facilitating the feasibility study. Produced regular reports to evaluate the performance.
Monitored the UAT and Trained the end users in using the application.

Implementation of Expert Appointment in Johns Hopkins Medical University
Performed as a business analyst.
Facilitated JAD Sessions with the JHM University representatives to record the business requirements using Agile SCRUM.
Produced Detailed user stories and submitted the backlog to the steering committee.
Collaborated with the team and customer in implementing the feature enhancements and expected security enhancements by JHMU.
Produced and maintained status reports.
Verified solution demo by the development team. 
Performed UAT upon implementation.
Conducted Training workshop to the JHMU staffs and usability of application.
Responsible for the PCP and specialist reimbursement feature (fee for service, capitation & Bundle payments). Medicare, Medicaid and Q2 Claims.
Handled the integration of Medical claims and benefits application.

Expert Appointment Application
Played the role of business analyst and project manager
Defined Project  plan, scope and derived budget for the application.
Conducted sessions with the development team in finding out the risks and its possible solutions.
Produced and Maintained project schedule reports.
Collaborated with cross functional team across the development life cycle.
Monitored the project activities and produced Status reports.
Managed QA testing and UAT. 
Worked closely with the end users and Conducted Demos to ensure the objectives are met.

                          Environment: PHP, MySQL, HTML5, CSS, PENCIL, MS VISIO, AGILE, SCRUM, JIRA, Healthcare,   
                                                   HIPAA, HITECH

Client: Recovery Maps Inc, Pennsylvania				Dec 2010- Mar 2013
Business Analyst
Requirements Elicitation with the stakeholder.
Develop and documented Feature document, Use cases and wireframes.
Maintained Use case Diagrams and Activity Diagrams.
Produced User stories in product backlog, Story points and Capacity planning.
Developed user acceptance criteria.
Responsible for Daily stand up meetings, monitoring sprint health and sprint retrospective meetings.
Interacted with QA team in delivering the sprint as per the scheduled. 
Prioritizing the backlog in next sprints.
Performed UAT upon completion of development.
Involved in installation of the application to various hospitals and clinics.

                            Environment: PHP, MySQL, HTML5, CSS, PENCIL, MS VISIO, HEALTHCARE, HIPAA, HITECH

Client: Marvel Interiors Inventory Application				Jan 2010- Dec 2010
Project Manager
Defined Project  plan, scope and cost benefit analysis for the application.
Conducted sessions with the development team in formulating the risk mitigation plans.
Produced and Maintained project schedule reports.
Documented Status reports and submitted to upper management.
Managed QA testing and UAT. 

                            Environment: PHP, MySQL, HTML5, CSS, MS PROJECT, SUPPLYCHAIN

Other projects  handled

 Idhunammakadai Android App(Ecommerce) , Idhunammakadai IOS App (Ecommerce), Idhunammakadai POS Software(Ecommerce), Yardsale IOS App(Ecommerce), Weso Accounting Application(Finance), Skin Interiors Ecommerce application, Tradespotters Ecommerce application, Teeday wholesale (Ecommerce), Canada Pharmacy (Ecommerce) etc., 


Employment History

Cognostek, Chennai, India as a Project Manager from Dec 2008 – Dec 2009
Responsible for Project Initiation, Scope definition, execution, monitoring and close reporting to top Management, budgeting and closure of all projects. Responsible for Business analysis techniques such as Requirements Elicitation and Requirements  Documenting & Management.

Gants Software Solutions, Chennai, India as a Project Manager from Oct 2005 - Nov 2008
Managed lot of web applications in both PHP and ASP.NET. Responsible in managing project s in Waterfall. Involved in project initiation, planning, monitoring, Budgeting, Team mentoring, Training, Stakeholder discussion, Coordinating with business development team, reporting to top management on weekly basis. Responsible in Requirements gathering, Requirements documenting and management.

Dotcom Infoway, Madurai, India as a Customer Support Executive from May 2005 - Oct 2005  
Responsible for placing the project proposals, preparing proposals and chat support in generating the leads.
					
  
Education & Certifications

Masters in Business Administration(MBA), Madurai Kamaraj University (Madurai, India), Jan 2012 - Dec 2013
BSc in Spl.Physics,  The American College (Madurai, India), Jul 2000 - May 2003
DNIIT program in NIIT , NIIT (Madurai, India), 2003















