                                   Gautami Bulusu
eGrove Systems Corporation
Contact: Krish, krish@egrovesys.com, 732-753-2829
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PROFILE:
ISTQB certified Software Quality Assurance Test Engineer with more than 4 years of experience in Automated, Manual Testing and Mobile testing.
Experienced in Analyzing, Designing and Implementing Data-driven and Hybrid Automation Frameworks using Selenium WebDriver, Appium,  TestNG and Maven. 
Well-Versed in using Functional automation tool Selenium WebDriver /RC/IDE.
Qualified to Degree level in Electronics and Communication Engineering, strong in analytically solving complex problems and logical questioning.
Received Out-standing performance awards multiple times for my contribution in the team.

SUMMARY:
Over 4 years of professional experience in Manual and Automated Functional and Regression Testing, and exposure to Unit Testing, Sanity Testing, System Testing and User-Acceptance Testing.
Over a year of experience in Manual and Automated Mobile Testing.
ISTQB Certified Tester -Foundation Level.
Excellent knowledge in testing methodologies like Waterfall, V- model and Agile (Scrum).
Exposure to software development life cycle (SDLC), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC), IEEE standards in software development process and documentation. 
Expertise in in all phases of QA Life cycle and documentation, which includes Design, Development, and Implementation of Test-plans, Test-cases, defect tracking and reporting, and preparing RTM and Test-reports.
Strong Experience in Automating Web Application Testing using Selenium WebDriver using Java along with TestNG framework and Maven (Build configuration). 
Experience in Automating mobile testing using Appium with Selenium WebDriver/Java
Experienced in handling elements and performing Data-driven testing and Cross-Browser Testing using Selenium WebDriver.
Experience testing REST/SOAP API web services using SOAP UI and POSTMAN.
Analyzing XML files and identifying web elements using various element locators including x-path.
Worked using various bug-tracking tools (Jira, Bugzilla), project management tools (HP QC/ALM, Open Project) and source-code management tools(Tortoise-SVN).
Experienced in understanding Test Requirements and preparing test data, testing scenarios and testing strategy.
Interacted efficiently with clients, coordinated with developers and stakeholders, thus ensuring the delivery of a quality product.
Knowledge on HP QTP/UFT.

TECHNICAL SKILLS:
Core Skills:
Automation tools and frameworks: Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, Maven, Appium, SOAP UI, PostMan, Bugzilla, Jira, Open Project, HP ALM.
Programming: Java, C, C++, J2EE 
Operating Systems: Windows XP/Vista/7/10, Macintosh
Tools & Utilities: MS-Office, Outlook Express.
Exposure to: 
HP UFT, VB Scripting and Linux.

EDUCATION & CERTIFICATIONS:
ISTQB Certified Tester-Foundation Level (ASTQB board certification)
Bachelor of Technology, Electronics and communication engineering, June 2013
Bandari Srinivas Institute of technology, JNT University, Hyderabad
Aggregate: 78.2 % (First Class with Distinction)

WORK EXPERIENCE_______________________________________________ ___________ _____
eGrove Systems Corporation 						         Jan’18-Till date
Role: Software QA Test Engineer
EMC 3.0
Project: The project involves the development and testing of eCommerce applications and their corresponding Web based Admin Interface applications. This includes Mobile Testing of front end apps and Automated software API testing of Admin Interface.
Responsibilities:
Develop Test-Plans and Test-cases for Manual and Automated Mobile Testing using Appium with Java.
Develop Test-Plans and Test-cases for API testing for REST services using POSTMAN.
Worked in cohesion with Developers and other teams right from the initial stages of Testing to ensure the delivery of a defect-free Application.
Used Open Project for Creation, Execution and Managing Test Cases, raising and managing Defects.
Developed test cases using work flows and API responses.
Involved in Training and providing Knowledge for new Team Members.

Environment: AGILE, Appium(Selenium) with Java, PostMan, Java, Windows 10, iOS, Android, Open Project, MS Office Suite

YiiPack:

Project: The project involves the development and testing of a Web Based application called “YiiPack” which is an application that enables a person to either send a package to any part of the world at his price or a person who is travelling to transport a package and get paid.
Responsibilities:
Developed Test-plans and Test-cases for Manual and Automated Functional and Regression Testing using Selenium with Java.
Developed Test cases from business use cases and work flows and prepared Test data and Selenium Test Scripts.
Conducted 80% of testing using Chrome Browser, remaining was achieved through cross-browser testing using Chrome browser (using x-path element locator), Firefox and IE. 
Co-ordinated with developers and other teams regarding defects results and worked together for the development of a reliable and highly efficient software.
Developed test cases using work flows and use cases.
Used Open Project for Creating, managing and executing the Test Cases.
Provided Training and Knowledge transfer for new team members
Environment: AGILE, Selenium WebDriver 3.0, JAVA, TestNG, Maven, Windows 2008, Windows 10, Web applications, Open Project, MS Office suite

Genpact, India.                                                                                                                          Jul ’16-Dec’17
Client: Nationwide Insurance
Role: Software QA Test Engineer
Project: This project involved the development of a Mobile application for customers to access complete account information, view the status of the claimed insurance and manage his/her policies. 

Responsibilities:
Worked in a highly dynamic Agile environment.
Developed Test-plans and Test-cases for Automated Functional and Regression Testing using Appium with Java.
Used Jira for defect tracking and reporting.
Performed Failure Analysis and fixed issues using automation test reports.
Involved in Mobile app testing using Appium (Selenium WebDriver) and API testing using SOAP UI.
Coordinated with manual testers and developers for providing quick updates on automation test results either for pre-release testing or updating results after version release.
Providing knowledge transfer and support for new team members
Environment: AGILE, Appium Selenium WebDriver, JAVA, SOAP UI, Windows 2008, Macintosh, Web applications, Jira, MS Office suite



Genpact Hyderabad                                                                                                          Apr’ 15 – Jun’ 16
Client: Penske Corporation                                                      
Role: Quality Assurance Tester
Project: This project involved the development of a Web based application for logistics team to log-in, access and manage complete information of IT department. 
Responsibilities:
	
Created, executed and maintained Test-Cases in Selenium WebDriver using Java through HP- QC/ALM for Functional and Regression Testing.
Analyzed business requirements to better understand business logic and process flow and was involved in documentation.
Involved in developing Automation Framework from scratch and test cases for the project using SELENIUM WebDriver 3.0, TestNG and Maven.
Was involved in Unit, Integration and Acceptance test phases.
Developed Test cases from business use cases, Test data and Selenium scripts for UI testing.
Used Selenium WebDriver and TestNG for automating Cross-Browser testing and Parallel testing on Chrome, Firefox, Safari and IE.
Automated about 65% of Test-Cases on Firefox browser. Used Firebug and Fire-Path plugins to locate elements.
Prepared Traceability Matrix and reported defects/results to the team using Bugzilla.
Performing Back end testing with extensive use of SQL Queries. 
Interaction with client in deploying the Application and explaining the functionalities of the Product to client to make him familiar with the Product.
Worked effectively with Developers, AGILE Team and Project Management to achieve Selenium automation, high quality, release deadlines and QA processes improvements.

Achievements:  Received “Best- Performance Award” for contributing to around 40% of Test-Cases, identifying problems in internal QA process, suggesting and implementing improvements.
Environment: AGILE, Selenium WebDriver, JAVA, TestNG, Maven, Windows 2008, Windows 7, Web applications, Bugzilla, MS Office suite

Genpact Hyderabad                                                                                                         July’ 13– Mar’ 15
Client: GE GRC- Niskayuna and Bangalore
Role:  Quality Assurance Tester
Project: Develop a web application which enables the end-user and the IT team to log and manage IT tickets.
Responsibilities:
Worked closely with Business Analysts and Developers to gather Application Requirements and Business Processes to formulate the test plan.
Extensively involved in the Manual and Automation Testing of the applications.
Conducted Functional Testing, Integration Testing on a Developed Regression Test Suite for the Application Under Test
Actively conducted defect resolution meetings, QA status meetings. Also participated in Knowledge transfer sessions.
Developed Test data and Test-cases for positive and negative test scenarios using Decision Table and BVA for functional testing as documented in the test plan.
Environment: HP Quality Center 10.0, J2EE, Oracle WebLogic 10g, Windows server 2008, Windows XP/Vista

