Hari Babu
Email:hariguraka@gmail.com		                                                                         PH: 786-378-6921
Sr. Java Developer  
PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY:
Acquiring 8 years of immense experience in JAVA/J2EE technologies and QA implementation.
Worked experience in spring and JPA ORM tools.  Have good knowledge of JDBC connectivity. 
Expertise in using custom Tag Libraries for embedding dynamic code into JSP pages.
Used JNI Framework to enable access to the native applications in different platforms. 
Experience in dynamic web view applications using HTML, JavaScript and Angular Js.
Extensive experience in Oracle, MySQL. 
Extensive knowledge Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), development of XSD schemas and implementing both SOAP and RESTful web services. 
Involved in Spring Boot integration with Microservices Web Application. 
Skilled in implementation of Spring framework-based java application Spring boot, spring batch, spring MVC, Spring data, JdbcTemplate etc.
Experienced in generating logging by Log4j to identify the errors in production test environment and experienced in Ant, Maven and Gradle tools. 
Good Experience in Agile methodology with SCRUM, CI, and CD Process using Maven/Jenkins
Good exposure to various bug tracking tools, such as BUGZILLA, JIRA, etc.
Experience in using the XPath, CSS Selector for identifying the UI objects
Experienced in all stages of testing, Functional testing, smoke testing, integration testing, new feature testing, regression testing, security testing,Compatibility testing, backend testing, usability testing, GUI testing and configuration testing.
Experience with end users to supporting UAT testing and coded UI testing.
Developed BDD tests using Cucumber by writing behaviors and step definitions and Selenium support code in JAVA for Cucumber.
Expertise in testing SOA with Restful/SOAP Web Services. Created entire architecture for backend testing internal and third-party API using Test Complete and Soap UI.
Excellent experience with source version control tools such as Subversion&GitHub.
Extensive experience working with Databases such as,MS SQL Server, Oracle, and MySQL.
Experience in using SQL Queries to make sure that data was entered properly in the right tables, when the data was entered from front end screen.
Experience with testing on UNIX and LINUX environments.
Strong Analytical and Problem-Solving skills.
Demonstrated ability to self-motivate and be flexible within a fast-paced environment.
TECHNICAL SKILLS:
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE:
Client: Charter Communication, MO						Jan 2018 – Till Date
Team: Charter Wireless
Role: Senior Software Engineer
RESPONSIBILITIES:
Leading offshore teams, and discussing the project overview, assisting on project issues, training, initiating and projects assigned to them. 
Developed web application using Netflix Zuul to redirect service calls and created spring Cloud Config server using Spring Boot to configure the application. 
Developed web services using REST with spring boot application. 
Developed web API using spring boot application with RESTful services, Decipher tokens. 
Implemented Spring boot application with Rest API Identity Credentials.
Involved debugging of services application and deployment issues, Jenkins build issues. 
REST API calls to fetch and create test data and to interact with API andtesting through swagger model. 
Involved in the analysis, design and implementation of business accountant requirements.
Developed the required YAML configuration files and implemented the framework/tool for parsing YAML documents. 
Used JIRA as a repository to record all project testing efforts and to keep track of the defects
Configured Maven for JAVA automation projects and developed Maven project object model (POM).  Investigated software bugs and maintained reports, tracked defects.
Environment: Java 1.8, Spring 3.0, Web Sphere 8.5, GIT, SQL Server, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Jenkins,Rest & SOAP Web Services, Big bucket.
Client: Thomson Reuters, MO						March 2017 – Dec’ 2017
Role: Software Engineer
RESPONSIBILITIES:	
Followed agile methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings, sprint planning, showcases and retrospective.
Involved in creating Technical Design documents and Integration Solution Design documents.
Design and Coding of Various Java (1.8), J2EE modules like Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring Rest, Hibernate, JPA.
Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection and Spring MVC for REST API’s and Spring Boot for micro-services.
Implemented open source MVC architecture using Spring MVC
Developed RESTful API with Spring Boot configuration and used Swagger model.
Created connections to database using Hibernate Session Factory, using Hibernate APIs to retrieve and store data to the database with Hibernate transaction control.
Experienced in cloud technology and on-premise infrastructure integration.
Utilized Hibernate for Object/Relational Mapping purposes for transparent persistence onto the PostgreSQL database.
Involved in the development of Page Flows, Business Objects, Hibernate database mappings and POJOs.
Utilized Hibernate for Object/Relational Mapping purposes for transparent persistence onto the PostgreSQL database.
Actively involved in the enhancement, maintenance and design for the application.
Designed and developed User Interface, application modules using JSP, Hibernate, Spring, JavaBeans, HTML, CSSandJavaScript and AJAX.
Involved in the development of the presentation tier using JSP, HTML, CSS,
Implemented logging functionality using Log4j.Monitored the error logs using Log4j and fixed the problems.
Handled the moving of High volume databases to Cassandra and improved the Performance of High Volume CRUD Operations.
Designed and developed the web pages from mock- ups. 
Environment: Java 1.8, Spring 3.0, Web Sphere 8.5, GIT, SQL Server, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Couch base, Cloud foundry, Eclipse, PL/SQL, Log 4j, FileZilla, Jenkins, Rest & SOAP Web Services, JUnit Mockito, ANT.

Client: Comcast Cable Communications, Virginia					March 2016 – Feb 2017
Role: Java Developer/Production Support 
Team: CXP Triage
RESPONSIBILITIES:
Good Experience in Agile methodology with SCRUM, CI, and CD Process for the product development.
Strong knowledge on Web Services& Hands on experience in validating Web Services using SOAP-UI. 
Developed web-service enabled applications using SOAPUI and RESTful API for testing Webservices, inspecting WSDL files, generating SOAP envelopes and automating or accelerating many other common XML, JSON tasks when encountered. 
Performed REST API testing using SOAP UI Tool for REST web APIs. 
Proficiency in querying and reporting from Elastic Search/Kibana, Splunk and MySQL.
Proficiency in setting up and using open source reporting tools like Jasper Soft and Jasper Server.
Involved to prepare metric reports using Jasper Soft studio.
Created REST web services for populating and saving data from/to database.
Used Apache CXF, JAX-WS, JAX-RS for designing and developing REST and SOAP web services. 
Used Web Services on front end, servlets as Front Controllers and JavaScript for client-side validations. 
Implement and ability to gauge and trailor and reporting requirements for an enterprise organization based on the intended audience.
Experience in Microservices, Cloud (Pivotal Cloud Foundry), Apigee Gateway, Adobe Experience Manager. 
JIRA issue Tracker Rally is used for tracking various production issues and performance issues & defects fixing, issues. 
Involved in AppDynamics functionality to track the issues. 
Automation testing tools like SoapUI, Test, used GitHub repositories for version controlling.
Environment: Java 1.8, Spring 3.0, Web Sphere 8.5, GIT, MySQL Workbench, MongoDB, Eclipse, Log 4j, Rest WS, Kafka, Cloud Foundry, Kibana with Elastic Search Engine, Ready API, Jira, Jasper Soft and Jasper Server



Café Press, California						Jan 2015 – Feb 2016
Role: Software Engineer
RESPONSIBILITIES:
Used spring’s test framework to create integration tests for various Spring boot and spring batch applications.
Developed Spring Action Classes for controlling logic and data transfer between UI and DB, used command pattern actions, to embed multiple actions in a single action class.
Created Spring Beans using IOC, AOP and Transaction management features to handle the transactions and business logic.
Developed spring batch programs to generate payments, automated Emails attaching payment response files.
Used Sprint boot framework to create properties for various environments use yamls for configuration.
Created various spring boot and spring batch applications to connect them to various databases and created queries to retrieve data and modify the tables for the database. 
Implemented REST based web services using Spring Web MVC, to publish vendor Information, customer information.
Used SPRING dependency injection and IOC principles to build business layer. 
Implementedprocedures and complex SQL statements.
Developed Micro Services with Spring boot and Spring batch along with the test cases.
Migrated existing business applications to Amazon cloud services (AWS) based environment and deployed applications using Amazon web services.
Resolved production errors and deployed applications for end users and reported through telephone and e-mail.
Used Jenkins for continuous Integration of software development.
Involved in Integration, System testing, and bug fixing, worked with QA Team to execute the business scenarios.
Environment: Java 1.8, Spring 3.0, Web Sphere 8.5, GIT, SQL Server, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Eclipse, PL/SQL, Log 4j, FileZilla, Jenkins, Rest & SOAP Web Services, JUnit Mockito, ANT.
Calix, California						June 2012–Nov2014
Role: Software Engineer
RESPONSIBILITIES:
Designed and developed web site application using AJAX, AngularJS, Bootstrap, CSS, HTML5, JQuery, JSP, Tiles framework and XML.
Used Splunk to see the error logs in the application. Used Grunt Server and Jasmine to do unit testing on the frontend side of Angular code.
Designed Model-View-Controller (MVC) Architecture using Struts Framework.
Implemented Abstract Factory, Singleton, DAO, DTO, Front Controller, Command Pattern,MVC design Patterns.
Continual build has been handled usingMaven, packaging ear file and deployed application in web/App servers.
Version Control management has been implemented usingGITto work different team members on the same module; Tomcat was used as desired web server.
Tiles Plug-in in struts are used for designing JSP page layouts. Used Validator plug-in to struts for server-side validation.
Designed and developed Spring Batch Applications to read data from that files and databases. 
Used spring batch framework to update data in databases. 
Used spring batch framework to create custom readers and writers to work with application.
Used XML technologies like XPath, XSLT and JAXB for data exchange and presentation. 
WebLogic server was the application server that was used for the entire project. 
Created custom readers, processors, validators, Field Extractors for various Spring Batch applications.
Developed client upload tool using HTML, Jersey REST framework based on JAX-RS annotations.
Worked on optimizing database queries to improve the loading times of the web pages. Implemented DAO layer using different hibernate techniques like strategies, Inheritance, annotations and criteria interfaces.
Deployed Managed and Monitored Mongo DB Replica Sets / Databases, Prototyped Mongo DB new features across multiple stacks and applied the Mongo DB concepts such as locking, transactions, replication schema and design.
Developed Projects for Collections team using Node JS.
Led Quality control effort for the DEV team tracking timely closure of defects. 
Acted as a bridge between PM and UAT team to ensure smooth handling of issues
Environment:Java, J2EE, JPA 2.0, Struts 3.0, Web Sphere 6.0, 8.5, JUnit, Linux, DB2, Jenkins, Maven, Angular Js, Node Js, Backbone Js, Web services, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, Splunk, Grunt



Client: Cadence Bank					Nov 2009-May 2012
Role: Software Engineer			
RESPONSIBILITIES:
Designed and developed web site application using AJAX, AngularJS, Bootstrap, CSS, HTML5, jQuery, JSP, Tiles framework and XML.Involved in Manual Testing & Regression Testing. 
Designed Model-View-Controller (MVC) Architecture using Struts Framework.
Implemented Abstract Factory, Singleton, DAO, DTO, Front Controller, Command Pattern, MVC design Patterns.
Version Control management has been implemented using GIT to work different team members on the same module; Tomcat was used as desired web server.
Designed and developed Spring Batch Applications to read data from that files and databases. 
Used Spring batch framework to create custom readers and writers to work with application.
Worked on optimizing database queries to improve the loading times of the web pages. Implemented DAO layer using different hibernate techniques like strategies, Inheritance, annotations and criteria interfaces.
 Used Spring IOC and configured the Dependency Injection using Spring Context 
Involved in design and coding utilizing Spring Dependency Injection. Document test results and test procedures after every release. 
Environment: Java1.6, J2EE, Struts, Servlets, Spring, REST, JSP,HTML5, JSON, Java Script, Hibernate, JDBC, JSF, JSTL, CVS, JUnit, Eclipse, Log4J.	
Education: - Master of Computer Application (MCA) in Madurai Kamaraj University, India.
	
	