
Mounika P
Front End Developer - Wellington Management

Hudson, MA 01749

mounikarao2_tuz@indeedemail.com - 4693051937

Over all 8+ Years of professional experience in Applications design, Development, Integration, Maintenance, Installation, Implementation, testing of various client/server, N-tier and web application and its design, using various UI- TECHNOLOGIES.

Expert in developing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using JavaScript, jQuery, JSP, XUL, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, XHTML, XML, JSON and Ajax.
Experience in applying the latest software development approaches including model view controller(MVC), event - driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented JavaScript, JSON and XML.
Expertise in developing various JavaScript frameworks like Angular.js Backbone.js, Require.js, Node.js, Knockout.js, Express.js, Underscore.js, React.js/Redux, Ember.js, Pdf.js, Spine.js, Ext.JS, Responsive web design. (RWD).

Experienced implementing Web Services using Apache SOAP, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, RESTful API, restful and UDDI.
Involved in design, coding and testing of multi-tier Windows Form / WPF application and ASP.NET Application.
Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDD'S and Scala

Expertise in application development using ASP.net MVC 4.0/3.0 Framework.

Development of UI and Server side code (behind) using .net Framework.

Experience in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance and extensive experience with Agile and SCRUM
Worked on React.js framework to develop interactive websites based on client needs.

Involved in the Software Life Cycle phases like AGILE and estimating the timelines for projects.

Experience in SQL Database like Apache and MongoDB.

Experienced in using Text editors like Espresso, eclipse, Text Wrangler, Sublime Text, NetBeans, XAMPP, Notepad and Notepad++.
Utilized Pusher, Signal for real-time web communication. Bootstrap3 for styling website and phone gap / Ionic Framework App.
Developed product using Backbone.js, Handlebars.js and SASS.

Front-end development using JavaScript ES6, AngularJS, jQuery and Bootstrap

Build and Release management - GIT, Maven, Jenkins administration.

Technical Skills

Languages: C#, JAVA, UML, C, C++

Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, jQuery UI, angular.js,

bacon.js, wire.js, require.js, Jasmine, Karma.

Databases ORACLE, MYSQL.

Operating Systems Windows [ ] Mac OS X.

IDE & Tools Eclipse, Microsoft Visual Studio, Notepad++, Dream weaver, sublime, Web Storm, Jira.

Applications Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver, MS Office Suite, Eclipse.

Willing to relocate: Anywhere

Authorized to work in the US for any employer


WORK EXPERIENCE

Front End Developer

Wellington Management	-	Boston, MA -

2017-05 - Present

Boston, MA May 2017 to till date

It is an investment company the purpose of the project is to analyze the data from different financial sectors for trading Investment Management Group for Research Data Analytics Team. Need to build data lake as data comes from different applications and internal teams, we need to build data pipeline using AWS cloud techniques Perform quality checks on top of data and do aggregations for Tableau reports. Front End Developer:

Responsibilities:

Design prototype Skelton for the UI and Responsive design implementation using web components and Google polymer.
Strong Hands on Experience with JavaScript, framework, Ionic Framework, HTML5, CSS and XML.

Developed web pages using Ploymer.js Forms, Components, Layouts, Events, Validations, Trees, Grids components.
Utilized handlebar.js to create Views templates that could be reused and rendered to DOM multiple times.

Designing WPF Forms, Custom Controls and User Controls using XAML language for interactive UI.

Created proof-of-concept using responsive web design, node JS, React JS, modernizer JS HTML5 and CSS3.
Involved in building stable react.js components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.

Configured ASP.net Web applications and ASP.net Web services in Microsoft IIS 7.0/6.0/5.0.

Most recent concentration has been the design of object oriented web applications for client-server applications using angular 4, Bootstrap, CSS 3, and SASS.
Developed Single Page Applications (SPA) i.e. Web applications using Angular.js and handlebar.js and JavaScript.
Involved in use of angular 2.0 technologies to include, LESS and additional technologies to ensure current migration from Angular JS 1.6 to Angular 2.0.
Migrated existing codebase from flux to Redux and rebuilt react components in ES6

Used angular to connect the web application to back-end APIs, used RESTFUL methods to interact with several API's, and wrote custom directives for a responsive, CSS-animated user interface.
Created ASP.NET pages with web server controls for the presentation layer. Developed Servlets and Utilized Node.js to create a fast and efficient chat server.

UI Developer

Kohl's Technology -	Milpitas, CA -

2016-06 - 2017-04

Responsibilities:

Experience working with Node JS to develop single page along with dynamic web applications.

Worked with making calls to APIs to fetch the data from the backend as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation.
Developed front end interface using struts, JSP's, JSTL, Tiles Framework and also Custom Tag Libraries.


Worked with WPF designing rich User Interface, creating Custom Controls and User Controls using Expression Blend.
Produce Apps for internal and promotional use. Write frameworks and pods that streamline the implementation of features for external IOS
Comfortable using react Chrome Dev Tools and React.js Native Code iOS Simulator.

Developed Web API using node.js and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.

Worked on angular 4.0 by consuming Restful web services & used angular 4.0 forms like Template Driven forms and Modern Driven (Reactive) forms to perform form validations both on server and client side.
Experience using mobile APIs and specific functions of iOS such as: Core Foundation, UI Kit, Core Location, Storyboards, Newsstand, Local Storage in Core Data, Social Accounts, Apple Maps, Google Maps, Push Notifications, Accelerometer, cloud integration, Camera, Animations, Asynchronous Tasks, In App Purchase, Google Analytics.

Worked with IBM and developed iOS portion of IBM Mobile First Platform Cordova Plugins Using Swift/ Objective-C and JavaScript.
Client Side code were written in Reacts/Redux and Server Side Code were developed using MVC4.

Implemented the front end using ASP.net, HTML5, XML, CSS3, Java Script, Bootstrap, AngularJS and AJAX for dynamic.
Very good experience in Creating, deploying Perl Packages and migrating Database from one client to other.

Utilized react for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app that searched projects via the GitHub API through keywords.
Experience in creating web components using polymer.js set of W3C standards and upcoming browser APIs for defining own custom HTML elements.
Worked in developing dynamic robust UI screens using CSS, HTML, XHTML, XSLT, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Backbone, Ext.js, Ember.js and jQuery.
Experience in Angular-chart.js 1.6 for working with the donut and the line graph.

Web/UI Developer

Premier Healthcare	-	Charlotte, NC -

2015-04 - 2016-05

Responsibilities:

Involved in web designing using HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and extensively used Table-less Design in CSS for positioning.
Created popup forms using Bootstrap version 3.0.0 Models, AngularJS Models and AngularJS Controllers.

Used different Jenkins plugins like Global Build Stats plugin, job generator plugin.

Worked on ecommerce project which is responsive design and developed a single page responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using react.js
Involved in writing automated typescript for AngularJS application using protractor and JavaScript

Running reports on active directory Exchange Server, Windows server, office 365 and ESX Server using PowerShell
Used python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.
Familiar working with HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, C#, ASP.NET, Java, Git , TFS, MVC, MVVM.
Created Full trust cloud hosted apps using MVC (Angular) and MVVM(knout.js) frame works to support future integrations.
Used slick to query and storing in database in a Scala fashion using the powerful Scala collection framework.


Development of application using Perl CGI, mod Perl, jQuery, AJAX, SQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript etc., and other latest technologies.
Used React-Autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage.

Applied advanced HTML, JavaScript, and CSS to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces using material design components in polymer.js
Experience working with Google charts using polymer.js, D3.js

UI Screens were developed using HTML5, Java Scripts, Ajax, JQuery Custom-tags, polymer.js Kendo UI components and CSS3.
Created and deployed new features of the website and made it compatible with mobile devices using Sencha Touch.
Worked on proof of concept using Google web toolkit to create the personal card application site. Designed and implemented Report Module (using Jasper Report framework).

Web/UI Developer

Pulte Homes	-	Atlanta, GA -

2014-08 - 2015-03

Responsibilities:

Experience in developing Native and Hybrid Mobile Application for iOS, Android and Windows Devices.

Design prototype Skelton for the UI and Responsive design implementation using web components and Google polymer.js
Developed 6 custom applications in C# using the MVVM pattern in WPF and the .NET Framework environment.
Worked on typescript extensively to develop JavaScript applications on both server and client side.

Creating custom Integration Interface that can be generated into web services and exposed t0 services consumers by the service provider.
Used Bootstrap version 3.0.0 and AngularJS in effective web design.

Developed java applications using various IDE's like Eclipse 3.X/4.X, RAD, STS and Database IDE's such as TOAD, SQL Server, and MSSQL Management Studio.
Enhanced usability and user experience on RIA using Flex/Flash, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, MVVM, LAMP, Java, and Objective C.
Developed application by implementing the Single Page application template using AngularJS Route Providers.

Web/UI Developer

Costco Wholesale Corporation	-	Issaquah, WA -

2012-10 - 2014-07

Responsibilities:

Developed HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.
Involved in developing the functionality for communicating between the modules mostly involved in VIEW and CONTOLLER section of MVC pattern for CMS project, it includes HTML, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX which were used for UI development.


Involved in developing XML, HTML, and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.
Developed a core component of Analytics with Node.js, Angular.JS, Knockout.js, Ext.js and Socket Stream.

Maintained Cross Browser compatibility & implement Responsive Design custom media queries, etc.

Implemented MVVM in all interactive views using jQuery &knockout.js and layouts in Bootstrap.

Working in close coordination with Client to resolve issues arising using agile methodologies.

Designed DOM based interactive to reprogram selected links and adopted WCAG 2.0 standards for HTML and XHTML and W3C standards for CSS as well.
Used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.

Web/UI Developer

West America Bank SFO-CA -

2009-12 - 2012-09

Responsibilities:

By using developed interactive web applications using techniques such as AJAX, XHTML and DOM scripting.

Used Bower for packaging Management and GRUNT for UI Task runner.

Worked extensively on web 2.0 migration from Conventional Web Frame work to Ajax driven framework and extensively used JQuery, AJAX and MVC in Presentation Layer.
Used Git hub for pushing the code and pulling the code.

Extended Bootstrap classes to build custom front-end controls; example candidate isotopes. Worked extensively on web 2.0 migration from Conventional Web Frame work to Ajax driven framework and extensively used JQuery, AJAX in Presentation Layer.

Conducted agile meeting on daily aspects.


EDUCATION

Bachelor in Computer Science

Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University	-	Hyderabad, Telangana