Sourya
Senior Java/J2EE Developer
sny.java@gmail.com
302.401.6767	              				

Professional Summary:

Having 8+ years of experience in working on the various phases of Software Development Life Cycle like requirements analysis, design, coding, testing, debugging and maintaining the websites.
Analysis, Development, Testing, Documentation, Deployment, Integration, and Maintenance of web based and Client/Server applications utilizing Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, JSF, JMS, XML, EJB, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, HTML, DHTML and JavaScript, SQL, PL/SQL, Cassandra.
Worked with servers Jetty, web logic, JBoss and Apache's Tomcat.
Knowledge on C and C++ with Object Oriented Concepts.
Experience in using WebStorm, Net Beans, Atom, Eclipse IDE for Application development.
Thorough understanding and experience in stored procedures, in Oracle, SQL.
Exposure to Oracle SOA Suite, UML Rational Rose, Hibernate, and Spring Framework.
Extensive hands-on experience in object-oriented analysis, design, modelling and programming tools in conjunction with Business Process Modelling tools such as IBM BPM, and Camunda BPM.
Worked on MVC Architecture like AngularJS, NodeJS, and Spring.
Worked on Log4j configuration and setup and Implementation part. High level knowledge on ELK(ElasticSearch, LogStash, Kibana) stack.
Good experience on JBoss Drools Rules Engine.
Experience with Testing tools JUnit, Mocha, Gulp, and Chai for enterprise Web Applications.
Expertise in setting up Kafka cluster configuration handle large data queues.
Expertise in design and development in micro-service architecture with Web Services which includes implementing and handling of RESTful services and authentications using RESTful Web Services.
Thorough knowledge with J2EE application platform configuration and performance optimization
Developing websites using HTML, XHTML, CSS, CSS3, PugJS, VueJS, NodeJS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax and JSON.
Worked on web applications that required cross browser compatibilities like Chrome, Safari, Firefox, Internet Explorer and Opera.
Involved in several web application development projects that required Responsive Web Design.
Expertise in design and development in SOA architecture with WebServices which includes implementing and handling of XSDs, SOAP, WSDL files, JAX-B, JAX-WS, authentications using RESTful WebServices.
Good Web Application debugging skills using Chrome Developers Tool and Firebug.
Good understanding or network protocols such as TCP/IP, HTTP etc.
Knowledge in developing applications using Agile and SCRUM methodologies.
Have good communication skills to discuss the projects with technical and non-technical SME’s.
Some of the attributes that would describe me would be Team player, Proactive, Quick learner, Self-Motivated and Strong interest in Front End Development.
Have excellent analytical, problem solving, communication and interpersonal skills with ability to interact with individuals at all levels and ability to work independently and prioritize the work.
Enthusiastic to learn new technologies and concepts, and apply them when needed.



Education:

Bachelors in Computer Science and Information Technology (B. Tech) from Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad, India.
Sun Certified Java Programmer.

Technical Skills:

   Programming Languages: Java J2SE 1.6/1.7, J2EE, JSP, SQL Server 2005, Python, MySQL, Oracle, PERL scripting language, Groovy
   Operating Systems: UNIX, Linux, Solaris, Windows 98/95/2000/XP, Mac OS X
   Testing Tools: Load Runner, Win Runner, Hammer, Quality Center, Quick Test Pro, Cyara
   Modeling Tools: Rational 2000, MS Visio, IBM BPM, Camunda BPM
   Versioning Tools: CVS, VSS, Subversion, Git (EGIT, TortoiseGIT, SourceTree), PVCS, Clear case   Frameworks: Spring 2.x, 3.x, Hibernate 3.x, Grails
   Build Automation Tools: Ant, Maven, Jenkins, CruiseControl.NET, TFS Team Build/MS Build
   Networking Protocols: SMTP, POP3, IMAP, HTTP, NNTP, and FTP
   Web Technologies: HTML5, XSLT, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XHTML, XML, JSON, NodeJS, VueJS, PugJS, Bootstrap, Web Services
   Database/RDBMS: SQL Server 2008, T-SQL, Triggers, Cassandra, DML, DDL, Oracle 9i/10g/11i, MS Access, TOAD, PL/SQL
   Application Servers: JBoss 5.x, BEA Web Logic 10.3, IBM Web Sphere, Tomcat, IIS 6.0
   J2EE: Servlets, JSP, JDBC, OOAD, Java Mail, JMS, JNDI, RMI, Web services, SOAP, RestFul
  Other Tools: Jenkins, Adobe Photoshop, PuTTY, Gimp, MS Office, Firebug, Chrome Developers Tool, Packet Tracer, MATLAB

Professional Experience:

AT&T, Alpharetta, GA   						                         	 Aug16 – Till Date
Sr. Java Developer
Project: IVR Application and Tools
Responsibilities:
Involved in all the phases of Software Development Lifecycle including the gathering the requirements, design, development and testing the application.
Co-ordinated and Lead the offshore team by tracking everyday status of the work assigned.
Worked closely with other developers to help plan and implement unit and integration tests and participated in improving the existing codebase.
Lead the development of an end-to-end application for testers in the project for performing automated regression testing using a nice front-end providing the testers to view/execute/display test cases.
Served as the focal point of contact to communicate with client and offshore resources.
Developed the enterprise application using Java, Spring, Maven for major back-end functionality.
Created front-end application using PugJS, HTML, and VueJS. Used jQuery for creating behavioural aspects of the web page.
Developed UI application using NodeJS for creating and executing test cases by consuming various RESTFul URIs to call the back-end stubs for various services.
Implemented NodeJS Services to bind the data and provide access to the data on the server.
Developed micro-service architecture based web services to facilitate communication between client and servers.
Worked on designing and creating rules in the Drools Rule Language (DRL), and decision table.
Developed workflows which can handle complex business scenarios using Camunda BPM and integrated them with Java classes.
Implemented various cache libraries in some modules for retrieving and storing data.
Involved in setting up Kafka configuration by creating consumers, producers and setting up clusters to handle large data queues.
Implemented functionalities in back-end and front-end to manipulate/package/store the data from Kafka streams into Cassandra database.
Implementation of OAuth Framework Authorization for Web Application.
Created various data models for Cassandra to which handle complex JSON objects.
Involved in developing logging mechanism for all the existing modules.
Enhanced the existing services in the application to micro-service architecture.
Used Mocha, Gulp and Chai for testing the UI application.
Worked extensively on Collection Framework features like Map, Object, List to retrieve the data from Web Service, manipulate the data to incorporate Business Logic and save the data to database.
Installed and configured JBoss EAP 6.4 and Apache HTTP Server in the local environment to perform end-to-end testing of the application.
Involved in preparing design TSD document with Sequence Diagrams, Class Diagrams using Microsoft VISIO.
Configured and deployed the application onto JBoss application server using Maven build scripts to automate the build and deployment process.
Wrote JUnit, Chai, Mocha and Gulp test cases for unit, integration, and functional tests.
Implemented Agile-Scrum methodologies for Software Development Life Cycle.
Used Rally (CA Agile Central), JIRA, SDP to create/update stories and tasks and to keep track of the iteration.
Prepared project documentations and delivery artifacts for future reviews and reference.

Environment:  Java, Spring, Drools, Oracle, REST, XML, VXML, Eclipse, Atom, WebStorm, Maven, MS Visio, Rally, Jazz, Git (EGIT, SourceTree and TortoiseGIT), Agile, Scrum, Camunda BPM, jQuery, log4j, HTML, NodeJS, JSON, Cassandra, Kafka, VueJS, PugJS,  JUnit, Mocha, Gulp, Chai, Apache HTTP Server, JBoss Server.


  J. P. Morgan Chase, Dallas, TX		                                                                         Nov 14 – Aug 16    
Sr. Java Developer
Project: Credit Application Module
Responsibilities:
Involved in Requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, Testing and Maintenance phases of the application. 
Involved in gathering existing functionality of different products from BRD, HLAD and FDN. 
Implemented Agile development process on Software Development Life Cycle. 
Involved in effort estimations using Fibonacci approach. 
Involved in using HTML, DHTML, Java Script, AJAX, ExtJs, JQUERY, JSP and Tag Libraries to develop view pages. 
Involved in preparing design TSD document with Sequence Diagrams, Class Diagrams using Microsoft VISIO. 
Involved in doing analysis on DB Schema as per new design in DB2 from Oracle. 
Involved in using REST API while integrating with servers. 
Implemented Java code and design as per the Arch and coding guidelines. 
Involved in using Core Java concepts - Collections, Exception Handling, Multi-Threading and Serialization. 
Studied the existing python modules and wrote functional specification for migration team.
Used Spring framework to inject services, entity services, transaction management, and concerns by factory class corresponding to the use case operation executing. 
Involved in using spring concepts - DI/IOC, AOP, Batch implementation and Spring MVC. 
Involved in Declarative transaction management using spring AOP. 
Created WSDLs as per wire frames, UI pages & generated client jars using JAX-WS. 
Used Apache CXF to create SOAP based & Restful web services. 
Involved in creating internal & external services, Entity services and handlers. 
Involved in defining JRules that are defined for resources to show details on UI pages. 
Involved in writing SQL queries & PL/SQL - Stored procedures, function, triggers, cursors, object types, Cursors, sequences, indexes etc.
Worked on Single node/Multicluster setup using technology i.e. Oracle, and Cassandra.
Assisted in migrating the exiting data center into the AWS instances. 
Used Grails command objects for validating non persistent objects.
Implemented AngularJS Services to bind the data and provide access to the data on the server. 
Involved in Web sphere server configurations, Data Sources, Connection Pooling, MQ Series Queues setup for messaging and deploying the apps on different servers in different env.s like QA/IST/Production. 
Implementation of OAuth Framework Authorization for Web Application.
Involved in creating JUNIT test cases and ran the TEST SUITE using EMMA tool. 
Ran check style, PMD defects & Find bugs and fixed them. 
Using Jenkins AWS CodeDeploy plugin to deploy to AWS.
Involved in fixing defects identified in QA and IST phases. And tracked QC status as per the guild lines. 
Developed Authorization for rest services using OAuth 2 layer/3 layer concepts.
Spring based application to cloud based Microservices. 
Used Microservice architecture with Spring Boot based service through REST.
Involved in creating http inbound & outbound flows and orchestration using XPath using MULE ESB.
Done with transformers, exception handling, testing & Security of mule ESB endpoint through WSSR. 
Involved in doing Unit testing using MOKITO and also Integration testing 
Involved in peer level design & code reviews. 
Used SVN for version and source control. 
Involved in capacity planning, performance tuning and monitoring of JVM. 
Supported IST, QA and UAT builds and identified issues in Smoke testing and tracked them efficiently. 
Involved in deploying the application in Unix and to connect to see logs for fixing UAT/Production defects. 
Involved in building the code using Maven & deployed on server.


Environment: Java1.6, J2EE, Servlets 2.4, EJB 2.0, JDBC 2.0, JAXB, Spring-IOC/DI, AOP, MVC, BOOT, JSF, Python, REST API, DAO, HTML, Java Script, XML, CSS, Ajax, AngularJS, Web Sphere Application server8.0, LDAP, Oracle 10g, Log4J, Eclipse 3.1, CVS, DOJO, Ant 1.5, SOA, Mule ESB, SOAP, DB2, PL/SQL, SQL, Web Services-WSDL, OAUTH, Microservices, MongoDB, Jenkins, SOAP UDDI, SOAP UI, Axis2, AWS, REST API, JAX-RS, JERSEY, Windows XP.







Health Partners, Minneapolis, MN							               Nov 12 – Oct 14

Sr. Java Developer
Project: Health Insurance System
Responsibilities:
Developed and Implemented Web Services and used Spring Framework.
Used the light weight container of the Spring Frame work to provide architectural flexibility for inversion of controller (IOC).
Implemented the caching mechanism in Hibernate to load data from Oracle database.
Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and Spring.
Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database, Used Hibernate Framework for object relational mapping and persistence.
Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework.
Expertise in developing enterprise applications using Struts Frameworks.
Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing, best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions. 
Designed and developed Using Performance Engineering
Involved in the deployment of SOAP based Web-Service End-Points using Apache CXF.
Developed REST architecture based webservices to facilitate communication between client and servers.
Created all the services to work with the various entities provided and restified the services using REST APIs.
Responsible for build and release the code from Clearcase, Subversion and Perforce.
Good Working experience with web/applications servers IBM Web sphere, Oracle Web logic, JBOSS, Apache Tomcat and Jetty. 
Used Multithreading to do the application development and for running the different tasks at the same time.
Responsible for build and release the code from Clearcase, Subversion and Perforce.
Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, JavaScript, CSS 3, HTML 5, JSON, Performance Engineering and JQuery.
Developed UI screens using YUI, CSS and JQuery.
Written Stored Procedures and functions for common utilities using PL/SQL.
Provided leadership for service-oriented architecture (SOA) initiative by designing and developing web service interfaces to outside vendors and to internal systems.
Wrote validation packages using PL/SQL package.
Developed user interfaces using JSP, JSF frame work with AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, and CSS.
Developed AJAX scripting to process server side JSP scripting.
Designed and developed the UI mostly using YUI.
Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using JS, EXTJS and JQuery.
Developed Web based Dynamic Form Builder using DHTML, JavaScript Object-to-XML.
Designed and developed the UI using Struts view component, JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
Design, develop and test of SOA services using SOA / SOAP Web Service / Oracle Fusion Middleware.
Implemented OAUTH 1.0 for authenticating the API clients
Worked in Agile environment with active scrum participation.
Agile and scrum process is used for tracking and developing the application.
Worked on designing and creating business rules using IBM ILOG Rules Engine.

Environment: Core Java, J2SE, Servlets, JSP, YUI, Hibernate, Spring Framework, XML, MySQL, Eclipse, REST Web Services, OAUTH, Firebird tool, Cassandra, Postgres DB, SOAP, SOAP UI, Jboss, Spring web flow, PL/SQL, Dozer frame work, DB2, JQuery, AJAX

Comcast, Denver, CO		                                                                   	                  Oct 11 – Sep 12
Java/J2EE Developer
Project: Insurance Application
Responsibilities:
Web enabled the application using Servlets, JDBC, Session Beans, JMS, JSP, and EJB.
Prepare Java/J2EE development structure for Eclipse, maven, Jetty.
Developed and customized n-tier J2EE application framework using RMI.
Used the Eclipse as IDE, configured and deployed the application onto WebLogic application server using Maven build scripts to automate the build and deployment process.
Developed and designed interfaces using HTML, JSP, Server Side components using Servlets on
Eclipse and used JPA annotations.
Mentored/trained a team of 5 juniors to mid-level developers in Java/J2EE Development using UML
Design documents.
Experience on Core Java technology which includes Multi-Threading, JDBC, RMI, network programming.
Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle.
Experience in Hibernate 3.0 which includes integrating legacy databases, writing custom CRUD statements, integrating stored procedures and functions and also performed polymorphic associations.
Created SQL queries, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions for the Database layer by studying the required business objects and validating them with Stored Procedures using DB2. Also used JPA with Hibernate provider.
Developed stored procedures, Triggers and functions in Oracle 10g to process the trades using PL/SQL and mapped it to Hibernate Configuration File and also established data integrity among all tables.
Developed hibernate DAO Accessor Classes using Spring JDBC Template, worked with Hibernate for object relational mapping and connection management.
Developed the Presentation and Controller layers using JSP, HTML, Java Script, Business layer using Spring (IOC, AOP), DTO, JTA, and Persistent layer DAO, Hibernate for all modules.
Implemented User interface (UI) entire application using JSP, JSTL, Custom Tag Libraries, JavaScript, XML/ XSLT, HTML, CSS and Especially YUI.
Created applications, connection pools, deployment of JSPs, Servlets, and EJBs in WebSphere also Soap web srvice.

Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE, RMI, Spring Frame work, Soap, Hibernate, HTML 4.x, CSS2.x, JavaScript, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON, XML, YUI, Multi-Threading, APACHE TOMCAT server, JPA, SOAP UI, REST web services, spring web flow, Boot strap.

Model Governance Systems, India			                                                                           Feb 09- Feb 11
Java Developer
Project: Sales Record Application
Description: The project was designed to retrieve the customer and their vehicle’s information easily and effectively using Search module, the information then can be utilized for service records. The project had also a provision to allow adding the records of the new vehicle that was sold by the company to a new customer. It was developed in Java with database connectivity and used Oracle as database. It serves as good user interface where user can enter the name and details in textbox designed in swing and that information then stored in database. 


Responsibilities:  
Designed the application based on the architecture of the MVC design pattern.
Project was developed following Agile and Scrum methodologies.
Requirement Analysis and Documentation as per SDLC methodologies.
Converted requirement into flow design diagram using MS Visio.
Performed data loading using spring - Hibernate.
Used WSDL to post the services in the UDDI.
Configured Hibernate's second level cache using EHCache to reduce the number of hits to the configuration table data.
Developed views for JSP pages using AJAX
Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.
Code development using Eclipse, HTML, JAVA, JSP, SWING, Servlet and SQL 
Created Functional Test cases and achieved bug fixes.
Wrote SQL, PL/SQL (Procedures/Functions/Packages/Triggers) to handle business functionality.
Used XML SAX parser to simulate xml file which has simulated test data.
Code review and function testing for better client interface and usability. 
Participation in meeting with team, senior management and client stakeholders

Environment: Java, J2SE, JSP, Servlet, SQL, Oracle9i, JDBC, Swing, Eclipse, HTML, SDLC, MS Office, Windows, AJAX, JPA annotations, SOAP web services, WSDL, UDDI, SAX, DOM