

Niteesh Kusumba
niteeshkusumba.java@gmail.com
727-304-5761
[Sr. JAVA FULL STACK DEVELOPER]
Career Objective: 	
          Seeking a challenging position to utilize my skills and abilities in a challenging, dynamic and growing organization that provides ample opportunity where my professional skill and knowledge are enhanced, while being resourceful, innovative and flexible.
Professional Summary:
Around 8+ years of experience in object-oriented programming, design, development, testing, implementation, and Enterprise applications using Java and J2EE technologies with Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). 
Experience with Java8 streams, Lambda functions, Method references, Filters, Predicates, collections and other default methods.
Extensive experience in developing applications using Java, Java Beans, JSP, JSF, Servlets, REST Web Services, Apache Struts framework, Spring MVC framework, EJB, JDBC, JNDI, Spring, Hibernate, JavaScript, Ajax, JUnit, Test Driven Development and Oracle. 
Strong experience in Spring Framework modules such as Spring MVC, IOC, AOP, JDBC, JTA, IO, ORM, Spring Dashboard, Spring Boot and Spring Data JPA, Spring cloud, Microservices, Spring REST, Spring Eureka, Spring Ribbon, Spring Netflix, Spring Zuul Proxy.
Experienced in Service Oriented Architecture and Web Services using SOAP, REST.
Strong understanding of Micro services patterns – Circuit Breaker/Hystrix, DDD, Aggregator, Proxy Chaining.
Developed applications using latest technologies like EJB3.2, Spring 3.x/4.x, Hibernate3.2/4.x, REST based Web services (Axis2.0, JAX WS 2.0, JAX RS), Rule Engines (Drools4.1, ILOG), jBPM tools.
Deployed the application to pivotal cloud foundry.
Experience with Angular JS, JQuery, Karma, Jasmine, Ext JS, Grunt, JavaScript, VBScript, Perl, AJAX, Adobe Flex, ActionScript, JSON, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Tiles, Tag Libraries.
Experience in developing applications using J2EE Design Patterns like creational, structural and behavioural design patterns.
In-depth knowledge of core java concepts such as OOPS, Collections, Threading, generics, Exception handling, Multi-Threading, Execution services, concurrent utilities, File IO, Garbage Collection and Serialization.
Excellent in deploying the applications in AWS as EC2 instances and create snapshots of the data that have to be stored in AWS S3. Installed the application on AWS EC2 instances and also configured the storage on S3 buckets.
Excellent working experience in web-based GUIs development using Servlets, JSP, JSF. 
Proficient in SQL and wrote Stored Procedures, Triggers besides writing DDL, DML and transaction query with development tools like TOAD and Oracle SQL Developer.
Implemented Security as a service using pivotal cloud foundry.
Knowledgeable with RDBMS concepts like writing SQL Queries. Working experience of Relational DBMS like MySQL, Oracle SQL PL/SQL, SQL Server (MS SQL), DB2 and Oracle Performance Tuning.
Strong experience with NoSQL concepts and developed various databases using NoSQL.
Strong experience with MongoDB development (reports, schema design, map reduce functions) and migrations from SQL relational databases to NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Cassandra and CouchDB.
Experienced in Middleware persistence frameworks like Hibernate/JPA Entities for mapping Java classes using Hibernate Query Language (HQL), HSQL Named Queries, Criteria, Projections.
Extensively used Crucible, subversion, Git, Bamboo, Rally software, Maven, Jenkins & JIRA.
Experience with Windows, UNIX Operating Systems.
Having knowledge and hands-on experience with Selenium, JUnit, Log4j testing tools.
Excellent team player, dynamic, flexible with positive attitude and excellent learning skills.
Able to work in both Java and Mainframes simultaneously.
Experience in Deploying, Configuring and maintaining applications on Web Servers such as BEA WebLogic, IBM Web Sphere, and Apache Tomcat.
Good knowledge in AWS (Amazon Web Services) and its features like EC2, S3, RDS, ELB, EBS, ESB, CloudFront, and VPC.
Software Skills:

Professional Experience:
Client: Change Health care, Nashville, TN			Duration: Sep 2016 – Till date
Role: Sr. Java/J2EE Full Stack Developer
Description: This is a web application based on J2EE architecture. It provides web-based access to inpatient and outpatient data from the Data Repository. Users can review as well as update or enter new data through data repository. Many clinicians use Data Repository daily for accessing patient data, which aids in making important clinical decisions. Data Repository is mainly composed of various modules running inside of the application. The project aims to provide the company with data to develop evidence-based health policy decisions as well. The client programs are used for issuing or retrieving data from the database depending on the query for finding health policy premium 
Responsibilities:
Involved in requirements gathering, system design, analysis, implementation and setting up the development environment.
Developed multiple Angular 4.0 components which are compatible with latest versions of Type Script, angular CLI.
Involved in the development of the UI using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Ext JS and Angular JS.
Extensively involved in coding with AngularJS to add functionalities and effects like Accordion, Infinite Scroll bar, Slider bar, Draggle/Droppable, Resizable, Progress bar. Customized Data Tables and High charts into Angular JS Directives.
Implemented a responsive web design using Bootstrap. 
Espresso Framework which is used internally for developing the services with a quick and easy view of UI.
Extensively used JAVA8 Streams, Lambda Functions, Predicates, Functional Interfaces, Method References, Filters, Collections and default methods.
Developed MicroServices for different level of layers in flow of network.
Involved in implementing the Micro Services based on Restful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC
Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Batch and handled the security using Spring Security.
Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using JMS (MQ series) for sending and receiving messages while creating web services. 
Extensive use of Spring Data in design and development of user interfaces.
Involved in implementation of application using conventional design practices (Web-Service Oriented Architecture, MVC-Model View Controller).
Created and injected Spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.
Extensively used the Spring framework implemented upon the MVC design pattern.
Developed RESTful Web services for transmission of data in JSON format.
Used PL/SQL stored procedures for applications that needed to execute as part of a scheduling mechanisms. Heavily used joins stored procedures, views, Unions in Oracle data base to fetch the data.
Developed Applications using Rule Engines-Jboss Drools 4.x, Work flows, Human tasks to implement Business rules validations and provided Drools Dashboard for Business users.
Extensively used Hibernate Relational mappings (One-To-Many, Many-To-Many) in the secondary project.
Extensively worked on Hibernate Cache, Query, Criteria and Transactions in secondary project.
Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging, pushing images, integration of Spring boot.
Used load balancing in pivotal cloud foundry services.
Testing for Node JS is done using mocha and chai for spring boot used Mockito, Junit, JMeter, Mock MVC and achieved Test Driven Development.
Created the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.
Hands on experience with MongoDB Installation, Configuring, Monitoring and Designing Shared Environment.
Used Maven as build and dependency management tool for creating EAR, WAR and JAR file to be deployed in application servers and integrated with SVN, Jenkins, JMeter and Jenkins Jobs.
Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring RESTful Web service, Spring Security, Hibernate 4.2, JMS, AngularJS 1.5, 4.0, Oracle 11g, CRUD, JIRA, CI, CD, Selenium, DAO, XML, MDB's, JMS, IBM WebSphere, DML, MVC, RESTful, Junit, JMeter, Log4J, SVN, EC2, S3, MicroServices, Bootstrap-3, JENKINS, IBM Rational Rose.

Client: Wells Fargo, San Antonio, TX				Duration: Sep 2015- Sep 2016
Role: Sr. Java/J2EE Full Stack Developer
Description: An obsolete server outdates software needed standardization of processes. These circumstances have necessitated the need for upgrading the Xenos server under a new licensing agreement. For internal applications/customers the decision to move away from Xenos (D2E-vision) for document transformation, generation and other support functions. 
Responsibilities:
Developed MicroServices using Spring Boot technology.
Extensive use of Python on Regression Testing using PyDev and PyCharm.
Involved in implementation of application using conventional design practices with Java 8 edition (Web-Service Oriented Architecture, MVC-Model View Controller).
Gradle for building the applications. ELK stack for Logging.
Developed UI with React JS and Implemented Node JS as a server-side proxy for an event-driven model.
Migrated from Angular 1.0 to Angular 2.0, to take advantage of its features like Mobility Driven, Better performance, Revamped Dependency Injection and Strong & Flexible Routing.
Created Stacks using Amazon Cloud Formation templates to launch AWS Infrastructure and resources. Used AWS Lambda to run the code in the AWS.
Experience in automating the infrastructure in AWS using web services. Used AWS, which included managing application in the cloud and creating instances.
Designed and Implemented the MongoDB schema.
Hoverfly for Mocking the JSON Responses for development Purposes.
Ping Federate Security client for authentication purposes.
Developed the application using Spring framework to achieve Dependency Injection for loose coupling, modularity, easy unit testing.
Extensively used Spring Tool Suite, Eclipse, GIT version tool system for developing Java based Applications.
Worked on Initial Spring and Maven Configuration set for the Project Spring - Maven Framework.
Created Spring Boot applications testing suite using Spring Junit plugin and Mockito framework.
Involved in the development on Geo Location service using API calls.
To work on test and end-to-end environment servers, used LINUX commands to see the    application Logs.
Building Jobs using JENKINS.
Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection and used Apache Camel to integrate Spring framework.
Extensively used multithreading concepts.
Developed Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams using Rational Rose Software.
Deployed the projects (.war and. ear) in to production as primary On Call person from the Team.
JUnits, Python Units for extensive functional and unit testing code.
Deployed the applications on Pivotal Cloud Foundry.
Develop the micro-service in spring cloud framework to support Next generation cloud framework.
Developed modules with JSP, Spring, EJB, XML and deployed them on JBoss Application Server.
Tested the Web services using SOAP UI and Mockito framework.
Developed services that are reusable and interoperable, using SOAP Web services.
GoCD Pipeline for running the applications developed by configuring it with GitHub, Which can check if the application is building or failing.
Followed Agile-Sprint methodology in delivering the work.
Environment: JDK 1.6, Spring Framework, SOAP, Drools, Angular2.0, Spring WebLogic, JBOSS, GIT, JSP, EJB, HTML5, Java Script, React JS, Apache Maven, Apache Camel, MongoDB, SOAP UI, Putty.

Client: AT&T, Dallas, TX						Duration: Jan 2015- Aug 2015
Role: Sr. Java Developer
Description: TORCH (Troubleshooting Operations: Resolution, Care, Help) is a web-based application used by AT&T Mobility personnel such as Customer Care, Retail, Business to Business (B2B), and Network Operations, to verify customer's cellular phone account features against network element profiles. It can be used to troubleshoot and resolve technical customer service issues, and out-of-synch conditions between billing and provisioned network elements. Depending on access level, users can view or edit certain profile fields, and gain access to functionality available from certain applications on cellular switches.
Responsibilities:
Struts framework for MVC design Pattern, Action class, Action Servlets, Form Bean.
Used Eclipse IDE for writing code and BEA WebLogic as application server.
Implemented simulated top-down SOAP based Web Service to test the business logic for the rating calculation.
Used JDBC, MQ Series and Web Service, and Hibernate framework to access the data from back-end MS SQL database server.
Used Stored Procedures to crunch data and creating view for fetching data from multiple tables on MS SQL Server.
Used Java Persistence API (JPA) for managing relational data mapping.
Spring framework to implement bean to declare a service and accessed those using Application context. 
JMS for sending and receiving Message through application server.
Involved in developing the applications using Spring Framework for Dependency Injection (Inversion of Control), Implemented the business logic using EJB(session and entity beans)
Used XML SAX to parse the simulated xml file which has simulated test data.
Used SVN for version control. 
Used Log4J logging framework to write Log messages with various levels. 
Developed Automated Test Application which validates various XML document using Junit and XSLT.
Used JRockit JDK to develop and run the underwriting workbench application.
Used GWT and WAS migration
Followed Agile Methodology during the development process.
Work with DNS to map the website to its ip address
Extensively used GWT for developing Ajax applications.
Used Maven to validate, compile and deploy the files.
Environment: JDK, Java/J2EE, EJB, JSF 1.0, Hibernate 3.0, Jakarta Struts 2.0, Spring 3.0, JSP, CSS, JSTL, JDBC, Servlets, XML, JRockit, JUnit, JavaScript, VSS,JMS, Agile Programming, Eclipse, GWT, MSSQL Server 2005, Ajax, AXIS, Web Services JAX-WS, BEA WebLogic Server 8.1, UML, Maven, UNIX, SVN.

Client: State Farm Insurance, Bloomington, IL			Duration: Oct 2013 – Dec 2014
Role: Java/J2EE Developer (Mid-Level) 
Description: The Auto Insurance Application allows customers to access their account online. This application provides employers to access customer information to process & authorize claims of the customers and generates free quotes for the customers depending on the type of insurance package they selected. It also facilitates customers to pay their monthly premiums.
Responsibilities:
Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.
Generated Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.
Developed the applications using Java, J2EE, Struts, and JDBC.
Implemented automation using Selenium WebDriver, JAVA, Selenium Grid, Maven.
Worked on various use cases in development using Struts and testing the functionalities. 
Involved in preparing the High Level and Detail level design of the system using J2EE.
Created struts form beans, action classes, JSPs following Struts framework standards.
Implemented the database connectivity using JDBC with Oracle 9i database as backend. 
Involved in the development of model, library, struts and form classes (MVC).
Used display tag libraries for decoration and used display table for reports and grid designs. 
Designed and developed file upload and file download features using jdbc with Oracle Blob.
Worked on core java, using file operations to read system file (downloads) and to present on JSP. 
Involved in the development of underwriting process, which involves communications without side systems using IBM MQ and JMS.
Used PL/SQL stored procedures for applications that needed to execute as part of a scheduling mechanisms.
Designed and developed Application based on Struts Framework using MVC design pattern. 
Developed Struts Action classes using Struts controller component.
Developed SOAP based XML web services. 
Apache Ant was used for the entire build process.
Used Rational Clear Case for version control and Junit, EasyMock for unit testing.
Used quartz scheduler to process or trigger the applications on a daily basis.
Configured WebSphere Application server and deployed the web components.
Provided troubleshooting and error handling support in multiple projects.
Environment: Flex, EJB, Struts, spring, JSP1.2, Servlets2.1, Jasper reports, JMS, IBM MQ, XML, SOAP, UDDI, WSDL, JDBC, JavaScript, XSLT, XML, UML, HTML, JNDI, Rational Rose 98, Oracle 9i, IBM Websphere 6.0, ClearCase, Log4J, ANT, JUnit, IBM RAD, and Apache Tomcat. 

Client: Virtusa, Hyderabad, India                             		 Duration: Jul 2011-Sep 2013
Role: Java Developer (Mid-Level)
Description: The System is a Customer Website Portal that will be utilized by existing customers to perform functions like Self Registration, Enter Meter Readings, Order Supplies, Create Service Requests and Account Management.
Responsibilities:
Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular, jQuery, AJAX and JSON.
Developed dynamic e-mails using JavaScript, and hand coding of HTML5, XHTML, and CSS3.
Created Dashboards using Java and servlets along with HTML and JavaScript.
Developed responsive and interactive pages using Angular 1.0 and Node.js frameworks.
Implemented various Validation Controls for client-side validation and implemented custom validation controls with JQUERY and JavaScript.  
Created basic animation for jQuery and rich interface components such as tabs & accordion.
Used AJAX to make asynchronous calls to the server to fetch data and update the DOM.
Worked closely with UX team to translate designs and wireframes to code.
Experienced in DOM manipulation, Event Handling, Event Bubbling, and integration with RESTful services. Developed the middle tier using EJBs. 
Developed session, entity beans and message driven beans. Entity Beans used for accessing data from the SQL Server database. 
jQuery opinionated about how a CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) application should be built.
Deployed the application on WebSphere application server in development and production environment. 
Undertook the Integration and testing of the various parts of the application.
Environment: Java/J2EE, EJB, JMS, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, AJAX, JUnit, Websphere 7.0, Eclipse, ANT, SQL Server 2000, log4j, Subversion, Windows NT 

Client: CMS Computers Ltd, New Delhi, India                               Duration: Aug 2009-Jul 2011
Role: Java Developer    
Description: CMS Computers Ltd. started as Computer Maintenance and Services Company. Today CMS Computers Limited operates as an IT solutions & amp; services company and is involved in technology solutions consulting and services, business system integration and services for transport system, including road traffic signals automation and intelligent transport management.
Responsibilities:
Responsible for Functional Specification and System Design based on Business Requirement Document provided by business analyst.
Analyzed use cases, created interfaces and designed the core functionality from presentation layer to business logic layer using UML.
Reviewed system requirements and translated into design documents, established specific solutions, and lead the efforts including programming and testing that culminate in business acceptance of the results.
Designed and developed client side GUI using JSP, HTML and JavaScript.
Used java core concepts Collection Framework Interfaces like List, Set and Queue.
Used AJAX and JavaScript for validations and integrating business server side components on the client side with in the browser.
Used Servlet as an interface between frontend and backend to handle HTTP requests and to send response back to the front end.
Worked on JDBC to connect to MySQL for implementing CRUD operations.
Responsible for configuring Apache Tomcat Application Server to access the Database by setting up Data source and MySQL Pool.
Developed the business objects using EJB for calling data access objects.
Used NetBeans IDE to develop the Application.
Used CVS for version control across common source code used by developers. Reviewing test cases and bug fixing.
Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions. Performed Unit Testing and Integration testing.
Strong knowledge of Medicaid and Medicare Services, Health Assessment Systems, Compliance issues and Electronic Health Records/Electronic Medical Records.
Environment: JDK, EJB, Servlets, JSP, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, XML, JDBC, NetBeans IDE, CVS, ANT, Apache Tomcat Application Server, UML, MySQL and Windows XP.
Certification:
MTA (Microsoft Technology Associate) certification, on the topic -“Database fundamentals”. 