Prashant Chawda, PMP, CSM
Mobile: +1-770 456 5746
nagaraju@paramountsoft.net 
Senior Project Manager
Professional Experience:
Around 19 years of industry experience in various functions of software includes program management, extensive customer support/stakeholder management skills with strong technical acumen. 
Result-driven PMI certified professional and Certified ScurmMaster with 10 yrs of extensive project management experience and proven track record in increasing productivity, quality and customer satisfaction.
A passion for excellence and a tenacious leader for results is a key attribute.           
Core competencies include:


Technical Skills:


Education:

Business Administration 									      2007 - 2008
Indian Institute of Management, Calcutta (IIM-C) 

Bachelor of Engineering (Electronics & Instrumentation), 							    1995
Gulbarga University  

Trained on Scaled Agile Framework (SAFe)		 						    2015

BSI ISMS Auditor training 										    2012

Certifications:

Certified Scrum Master from Scrum Alliance (CSM) - 2015
Certified Project Management Professional from PMI institute (PMP) - 2005
Certified Project Management Professional from Brainbench certification body - 2005
Tavant Management Team: Individual Excellence Award for ‘Accountability and Execution’ – 2006 & 2009
Certificate of Appreciation for Outstanding delivery from client (NACCO) - 2014
Certificate of Appreciation for Outstanding Performance at First Indian Corporation (now CTS) - 2005
Certified BSI 27001:2005 Information Security Management System Internal Auditor - 2012

Professional Affiliation:

Member, Project Management Institute (US).

Experience Summary:

First Guaranty Mortgage Corporation							            Jun16 - Present
Senior Program Manager

Responsibilities:                                    
Excellent stakeholder management skills with a shared vision, consensus building and customer relationship through constant & proactive engagement to maximize business objectives. 
Enhance team’s delivery capability by monitoring their work and providing guidance in understanding the requirements and resolving issues.
Focus on value delivered to the customer and constantly work with client facing counterparts. 
Moderated meetings at client side with various stakeholders participating. 
Encourage a work culture to build self-driven teams to pro-actively share, load and constantly support each other in day-to-day activities.
Followed Agile process by task allocation/management using Microsoft Team Foundation Server, sprint capacity planning and creating burn-down chart to facilitate planning of the sprints. 
Conducted demos after every sprint and retrospective meeting as continuous improvement.
Identifying risks / issues and building mitigation / contingency plan.
Monitor and report project progress by: Meeting business requirements, making deliveries as planned, Identifying and managing project risks / Issues.

ACT, NACCO Materials Handling								Sep12 – May16
Senior Project Manager,            

Responsibilities:                                                                           
Managed multiyear, multimillion, high visibility, large and complex application project spanning across different countries (US, EMEA, Canada)
Handled large fixed bid account involving multiple large fixed bid projects executed in parallel includes new implementation, maintenance projects, development of 120 analytical reports on Cognos platform
Managed project managers with peak team size of 60+ team members
Involved in defining product roadmap for growing account and practice
P & L management to keep cost under control and executed on all SLA metrics 
Grew the revenue from $0.5M to $4M+ in a span of 2 yrs by developing strong customer relationship and help reduce sales cycle for the new projects

Accomplishments: 
Adapted automation to reduce headcount thus resulting in cost saving of $150K over an year.
Adapted innovative means of product development by developing tool to validate data for data migration process reducing turnaround time from 15 days to 8 days thus increasing productivity.
Margin expansion done by delivering CR’s worth $300K over 1.5 yrs thus increasing overall margin for one of the projects.

Awards:
Certificate of Appreciation from Customer for outstanding delivery.

Tavant Technologies, Bengaluru  							             Jan10 – Aug12
Senior Project Manager,                                                    
Clients: Wolters Kluwer Financial Services, Land ‘O’Lakes, Ingersoll Rand, HSP

Responsibilities:                                                                           
Responsible for handling multiple customers for various accounts
Program execution of a cluster of 12 projects by managing teams onsite and offshore
Architected technical/ commercial proposals / RFP by teaming up with Practice director.
Created / reviewed / modified SOW’s / proposals for customer approval / signoff.
Successfully delivered various mobiles projects for Android and  IOS applications using various technologies like Objective C, Titanium framework (Appcelerator), Sencha 2.0
Handled mobile development projects designed for both iPhone and iPad 
Delivered solutions using various technologies like Microsoft based technologies, Java/J2EE, mobile technologies and host of other proprietary tools and technologies to various clients in various domains.

Accomplishments:
Key team member to execute the project management processes on the lines of PMI across the organization. Mentored emerging new managers
Pioneered new practices to increase organizational execution

Tavant Technologies, Bengaluru							              Jan07 – Dec09
Project Manager,                                                                  

Responsibilities:                                                                           
Handled complex projects through their entire lifecycle 
Identified and helped deploy open source tools for cost optimization resulting in 90% reduction in licensing cost
Involved in customer presentation/demos during customer visits for new prospective clients.
Agile process was followed for managing / allocating tasks using JIRA tool, used sprint capacity planning and burn-down chart to manage sprints. 
Ensure 100% compliance of the SEPG processes
Accomplishments:
Responsible for setting up the account from scratch starting with one project and then grew the account to 7 projects in a span of 1 yr by successful deliveries resulting in being promoted to next level
Awards:
Tavant Management Individual Excellence Award for ‘Accountability and Execution’ – 2009.

Tavant Technologies, Bengaluru							             Nov05 – Dec06
Associate Project Manager,                                               ,   

Responsibilities:                                                                           
Responsible for complete end to end delivery of the projects, that includes,
Scoping, planning, scheduling, tracking and status reporting.
Estimation and budgeting, change management, metrics collection.
Identifying risks / issues and building mitigation / contingency plan.
Application process review audits and configuration audits.
Lead the team through a challenging project, handling HR issues and conflicts in the process 

Accomplishments:
Was one of the highest CSAT and ESAT rated managers in the organization.
Successful releases of projects resulted in a satisfied customer which in turn resulted in customer providing me an opportunity to handle additional projects for the same account.
Awards:
Tavant Management Individual Excellence Award for ‘Accountability and Execution’ – 2006.

First Indian Corporation, B’lore (Now part of CTS),  					             Mar04 – Sep05	
Team Lead, 	                             

Responsibilities:                                                                           
Worked in supervisory role as technical lead for team, point of contact for both offshore and onshore teams.
Lead multiple teams in the areas of ,
Application development, UI automation and Quality assurance
Accomplishments:
Increased project revenue through customer satisfaction, developed management skills and enhanced technical leadership
Awards:
Certificate of Appreciation for Outstanding Performance.

IBM Global Services India Ltd, B’lore,  							 Oct02 – Mar04
Senior Software Engineer
                              
Requirements management, design document and application development 
Adherence to SLAs in providing 24/7 production support, hot fixes with bonus/penalty implications.
Assign and track tasks, plan delivery schedules and code releases to production. 

Misys, B’lore											  Jul01 – Oct02
Software Engineer, 			                 	                     ,  
Application development using Java/J2EE technologies, Servlets with iPlanet App. Server, JBoss

HCL InfoSystems Ltd, Chennai,  						                         Sept00 – Jun01
Consultant,
Application development using Java/J2EE technologies with weblogic App. server

Pentasoft Technologies Ltd, Chennai,  	             Jan97 – Aug00                       
Assistant Consultant,	                        
Application web development using technologies like Java, Servlets, JavaScript and HTML 
Application development using COBOL, IBM Mainframe technologies on ES/9000, S/390

