PRAVEEN T            
Senior JAVA/WEB DEVELOPER                                                                                                                                                     
CONTACT: 984-999-1439 
E-Mail: praveen06t@gmail.com 
	  			
Summary
Over 8 years of progressive IT experience in analysis, design and development of web based applications and client-server applications using Java and J2EE as well as enterprise applications using Web Technologies.
Expertise in Server side programming using Core Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JavaBeans, Hibernate, Oracle, Struts, Spring. 
In-depth knowledge of the object-oriented programming(OOP) concept with JVM Architecture, object oriented analysis and development. 
Experienced working in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle using Core Java, Java/ J2EE technologies.
Expertise in implementing the MVC Design pattern using Struts 1.0, Struts 2.0, and Spring Frameworks with different Java/J2EE patterns, Spring MVC, GWT, JSF, JSP, Apache tiles, Servlets, Web services, OAuth 2.0, XML, Hibernate, JPA, AJAX, JAXB, JDBC. 
Proficient in front-end/client-end Java J2EE technologies: Servlets, Java Server Pages (JSP), HTML, XML, XHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, Kafka.
Strong web development skills with web 2.0 framework, JSP & MVC and, CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript, DHTML, AngularJS, Knockout JS and Require JS.
Good experience in developing rich user interface applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, NodeJS, Bootstrap, XML and JSON. 
Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML5, DHTML, table less XHTML, CSS3 and Java Script that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible. 
Experienced in React JS and working with React Flux architecture.
Proficient in using Spring Dependency Injection, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring JDBC and Spring Hibernate Integration.
Experienced in implementing POC's to migrate iterative map reduce programs into Spark transformations using Scala. 
Created Front end pages for Ecommerce Website with using HTML, CSS and JavaScript. 
Building, Deploying and hosting an application on Cloud Foundry Environment. 
Experience in creating Kafka producer and Kafka consumer for Spark streaming. 
Used Test Driven Development techniques to provide reliable, working software early and often.
Experience in ANT and Maven build tools. Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise applications using Type safe technologies like Scala, Akka and Play frameworks.
Experience working in actor programming model using Akka actor architecture.
Technical experience in the areas of Object Oriented Analysis (OOA)Object Oriented and Design (OOD) using UML, Software Life Cycle Management and Development of Distributed applications.
Extensively used Eclipse IDE along with a variety of plug-in for streamlined development process.
Excellent knowledge on the complete Cassandra architecture with in detail understanding of read, write and delete processes. 
Good working knowledge of databases like MySQL, Oracle 10g/11g.
Responsible for designing Apache Kafka producer and consumer. Learning data streaming through Kafka, streamsets. 
Experienced in testing SOA and REST web services using SoapUI.
Knowledge in Creating and managing web applications, Site and Site collections.

TECHNICAL SKILLS:  


Professional Experience:

MetLife, NC							                                              Aug’17 – Present    
Role: Sr. Java/Web Developer
Description: MetLife, Inc. is the holding corporation for the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (MLIC), better known as MetLife, and its affiliates. MetLife is among the largest global providers of insurance, and annuities.
Responsibilities:

Developed Application based on J2EE using Hibernate, Spring, JSP frameworks and SOAP/REST web services.
Implemented REST Micro services using Spring boot. Generated Metrics with method level granularity and Persistence using Spring AOP.  
Used Spring Framework for Dependency Injection and Using annotation based Spring MVC.
Developed complex and critical objects, class and functions using Core Java and Java Beans.
Designing and implementing RESTful Enterprise platforms using JVM software (Java).
Designed and developed the UI using JSP/JSF, HTML, Bootstrap, Swing, CSS and JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, JSON. 
Responsible for building single-page-applications(SPA) using AngularJS development framework.
Experience with Angular 2 in two-way binding.
Worked with Angular 2 for creating own html elements for building web.
Utilized various JavaScript and Angular 2 frameworks and Ajax for form validation and other interactive features.
Designed frontend with in object oriented Java script Framework like React JS.
Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML5 and React JS.
Implemented Angular 2 controllers to maintain each view data. Implemented Angular service calls using Angular factory.
Developing GUI Components using Swing and AWT.
REST Web services written in Groovy/ Grails wrapped by Jersey JAX-RS.
Used SOAP UI for checking (testing) request/response of web services. 
Used Node JS to develop scalable web application. Utilized Annotation based Hibernate/JPA for
Object/Relational Mapping purposes for transparent persistence onto the MongoDB for the Sweepstakes engine and Campaign engine.
Used Scala collection framework to store and process the complex Customer information. 
Also, worked on QA to test product and report issue with Git hub bug tracker.
Apache Ant was used for the entire build process, wrote build scripts using GWT Ant.
Environment: Java 7, JDK, UML, Struts, HTML5, Angular 2.0, ReactJs, Spring MVC, Spring framework 4.0, Eclipse, JSON, REST, Oracle, Tomcat, JSP, JQuery, Servlets, Hibernate 4.3, XML, CSS3, Junit, Jira, SVN, Log4j, TOAD, UNIX, GWT, Ant, Agile, Camel.

Wells Fargo, NC										         Apr’16 - Present
Role: Sr. Java/Web Developer
Description: Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE: WFC) is a diversified, community-based financial services company. Analyzes highly complex business requirements, designs and writes technical specifications to design or redesign computer platforms and applications.

Responsibilities:

Responsible for the design of customizable headers and footers using Tiles framework of Spring.
Used Spring Boot which is faster in building Micro services and developed spring based applications with very less configuration.  
Developed Micro Services using latest server technologies like Docker, Apache Kafka and Kafka Streams.
Worked with EJB in the server-side to encapsulate the business logic of the application.
Successfully implemented the code for my module using Struts and Hibernate. 
Implemented DAO for data access using Spring ORM with Hibernate.
Consumed Web Service using JSON and REST to get the registered users, update their status.
Modeled the application to support bi-directional communication between server and client using Akka HTTP. 
Utilized various JavaScript and JQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.
Responsible in development of presentation layer using JSP and Servlets. 
Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and JSON. 
Used Bootstrap library to quickly build project UI's and used AngularJS framework to associate HTML elements to models. 
Worked on NO SQL database like Mongo DB and performed various CRUD operations on it.
Imported data from various resources to the Cassandra cluster using Java APIs.
Used JQuery library to build Ajax based web application module.
Involved in daily standup and sprint planning sessions as part of Agile Scrum methodology. 
Imported data from XML files and flat files to standard formats and published into JMS queue using JBoss. 
Used JIRA for bug tracking, and automated build process by writing Maven build scripts. 

Environment: Java 1.8, JDK, Struts, HTML, AngularJS, Node JS, React JS, Spring MVC, Spring, JVM, Eclipse, JSON, REST, JBoss, JSP, Jenkins, MongoDB, JQuery, Servlets, JDBC, Scala, Spark, Akka, EJB, Kafka, Cloud Foundry, Hibernate, OAuth, XML, Cassandra, CSS, Bootstrap, DAO, AWS, TDD, Junit, Jira, SVN, Log4j, Apache POI, UNIX, Ant, Agile, Scrum.


Client: Chrysler, MI							                                              Feb’15 – Mar’16    
Role: Sr. Java Web Developer
Description: Chrysler, is the American subsidiary of Fiat Chrysler Automobiles N.V., an Italian controlled automobile manufacturer. FCA US is one of the “Big Three” American automobile manufacturers. The company initiated a project to modify its customer portal to make it interactive, dynamic and customer friendly, these applications take advantage of the latest web standards. A great deal of care was also taken to ensure the client-side JavaScript facilitates modularity and maintainability.

Responsibilities:
Developed Application based on J2EE using Hibernate, Spring, JSP frameworks and SOAP/REST web services. 
Used Spring Framework for Dependency Injection and Using annotation based Spring MVC.
Developed complex and critical objects, class and functions using Core Java and Java Beans.
Designing and implementing RESTful Enterprise platforms using JVM software (Java).
Designed and developed the UI using JSP/JSF, HTML, Bootstrap, CSS and JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, JSON. 
Hands on working experience Linux environment with Apache Tomcat, experience on Amazon AWS.
Experienced in provisioning and managing multi-data center Cassandra cluster on public cloud environment - Amazon Web Services(AWS) - EC2.
Worked on creating a dashboard to keep track of Amazon instances.
Worked on automation of deployments of java code through chef.
Experienced in storing the analyzed results into the Cassandra cluster.
Worked on auto scaling of amazon instances.
Involved in capacity planning and requirements gathering for multi datacenter Cassandra cluster.
Used RESTful services to interact with AWS services.
Developed UI screens with HTML, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JSP and JQuery for the presentation layer along with JavaScript for client side validation.
Also, worked on QA to test product and report issue with Github bug tracker
Wrote Triggers and Stored Procedures for the batch processes using PL/SQL.
Apache Ant was used for the entire build process, wrote build scripts using GWT Ant. 
Developed REST APIs using Java, Play framework and Akka. 
JBoss is used as the application production server, Tomcat as webserver for applications, Apache as container in Linux Environment.

Environment: Java1.7, Eclipse, JBoss, Struts, Spring, SOAPUI, JSP, JSF, JVM, Hibernate, ColdFusion, XML, WSDL, SOAP, JavaScript, Node JS, React JS, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JQuery, Cassandra, JDBC, Apache kafka, HTML, Ant, AWS, JPA, TDD, JUnit, Akka, Cassandra, Jenkins, Oracle, MongoDB, Linux, Scrum, Tomcat, SOA, Web Services.

Client: Sprint Corporation- Overland Park, KS		                                                           Nov’13 – Jan’15
Role: Senior Java/J2EE Developer 

Responsibilities: 

Implemented Restful web services in java with JAX-RS, Spring MVC with UI build in DOJO using JSON over HTTP. 
Developed the Presentation Layer using MVC Struts Framework and also used Tiles Layout for View Transactions and User Activity Monitoring module. 
Used Spring Framework for Dependency Injection and integrated Spring with Struts.
Involved in build process through Maven.
Developed necessary DAO’s with Hibernate as the persistence framework.
Used Log4j for logging messages and Warnings.
Worked on various design patterns specific to the requirement.
Used Ajax to make calls from JavaScript to java.
Developed user interface using JSP, HTML and performed client side validations using Java Script.
Designed and developed the UI components using JSP/JSF, HTML5, CSS3. 
Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) architecture Using Struts Framework at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application to avoid the complexity of integration and ease of maintenance.
Followed TDD Test Driven Development and developed test cases by using JUnit for unit testing for each and every module developed.
Used XSLT to convert XML into HTML for displaying as web pages.
Created UNIX scripts to launch java modules on JBoss application server and to generate user reports.
WebLogic is used as the application production server.
Managed successful deployment of a hosted ecommerce business to consumer website. 
Manage executive expectations, problem resolution, and developing relationships and strategies for on- going Ecommerce programs.
Design & implementation of library to provide Kafka access to ECC modules.
Environment: Java 1.7, MyEclipse, WebLogic, Tomcat, EJB, Struts, JSF, JVM, JSP, Hibernate, XML, XSLT, WSDL, SOAP, JDBC, AngularJS, Scrum, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, Maven, TDD, Cassandra, Kafka, JUnit, Oracle, Team Track, Unix, Web services.

Client: Matrix Medical Network, AZ		 		                                                         Dec’12–Oct’13                                                                                                                                                  
Role: Java/J2EE Developer

Responsibilities: 

Actively involved in software development life cycle starting from requirements gathering and performing Object Oriented Analysis.
Interacting with client BA for resolving requirement gaps and resolving functional and database related queries.
Carrying out periodic demonstrations for application progress. 
Working as Issue resolution contact from application for any client discovered issues.
Involved in build process through Maven.
Developed necessary DAO’s with Hibernate as the persistence framework.
Used Log4j for logging messages and Warnings.
Worked on various design patters specific to the requirement.
Used Ajax to make calls from JavaScript to java.
Deployed the Application on Oracle Implementation with JSP, JavaScript, and Struts Validation framework on MyEclipse IDE.
Developed user interface using JSP, HTML and performed client side validations using Java Script.
Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) architecture Using Struts Framework at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application to avoid the complexity of integration and ease of maintenance.
Developed some applications using Web Services.
Experience in development of JAX-WS, Apache Axis for Web Services using SOAP, WSDL.
Created Business to Business communication by encapsulating SOAP Web Services in Java File and Stateless Session Beans.
Used CVS as version control tool.
Managing JUnit test scripts for development and test environments for latest deployments
Working out on feasible technical solutions with client team to common UI issues.
Integration and functional testing before releasing code for client testing.
Fixing client reported bugs on UI or functional issues found during testing. 
Deployed an application in IBM WebSphere Application Server v9.0
Environment: Java 1.6, Core Java, log4j, JSP, JavaScript, XML, Spring 3.0.1, Hibernate 3.5.4/ORM, HTML, CSS, JUnit 4.6, Ajax, WebSphere 7.0 Maven, Oracle 9i, My Eclipse, Eclipse 3.6.1, MySQL Server, Tomcat, Struts 2.2.1, NetBeans 6.9, CVS.

Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, HTML, CSS3, DOJO, Apache-Tomcat, Maven Repository, JMS, XML, XSD, XSLT, Eclipe, MVC, Hibernate, Kafka, JSM, Web Services - WSDL, JAX-WS, JAX-Restful Services, JAXP, JAXB, QC.

Client: Olive Technology, India					                                                Aug’09 – Oct’12                                                                                                                                                 
Role: Software Developer
   
Responsibilities: 

Participated in Requirements Analysis, and Design and Development phases of the project with major emphasis on Development of the modules.
Designed the application using the core J2EE design patterns Singleton, Session Façade, Business Delegate, and Service Locator.
Documented the design documents using Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams using the Rational Application Developer.
Developed user interface by creating at least one webpage for each component using Struts web MVC and Action Servlet as front controller for this application. 
Developed Action Class components for performing business process execution and involved in configuration of struts configuration specific xml file. 
Used Object oriented JavaScript for developing rich client page.
Developed the interactive web page using Struts, Hibernate, Ajax, XML, Object oriented JavaScript.
Used JIRA issue tracker to file the bugs.
Mapped (one-to-many, one-to-one, many-to-one relations) DTOs to Oracle Database tables and Java data types to SQL data types by creating Hibernate mapping XML files
Oracle database was used, wrote stored procedures for common SQL queries
Developed various Database interaction objects by implementing the DAO Patterns and used JDBC as Model Component.
Used SAX Parser for parsing the XML document.
JBoss Server was used as the application server for deploying the application.
Implemented Log4j by enabling logging at runtime without modifying the application binary.
Involved in Unit Testing and Bug-Fixing and achieved the maximum code coverage using JUNIT test cases.
Used ANT Script for building and deploying the application.
Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE, XML, JavaScript, JIRA, HTML, Selenium, SQL, Servlet 2.3, JSP 1.2, Struts 1.2, Hibernate, Log4j, JUnit, Ant, Oracle 10g, and Eclipse, JBoss.