
Lorenzo Zackery / myvt.me@gmail.com /​215 . 980 . 1011


Profile

I've been a WordPress Developer for 13 years now. I've worked with big name marketing agencies in midtown Manhattan as well as Philadelphia. I’ve had clients from New York down to Atlanta all the way to Chicago to San Francisco. My biggest project to date was for IBM with a budget of $100 million. I’ve also flexed my remote capabilities by taking on an international client for a startup based in Tokyo which is a 13hr time difference. I'm more than capable of taking on any WordPress role as I’m a proven WP developer who specializes in Full Stacks (FE/BE), Site/Database Migrations, Theme/Plugin Configurations, PSD to HTML and every WordPress task in between. I simply love WordPress and I am deeply rooted in the WordPress online community.



Core Qualifications

WordPress theme / plugin development & configuration

ECommerce based sites

Full stack / front end / backend




PSD files to HTML theme development Wordpress migrations

Wordpress site updates and modifications





Technical Expertise

WordPress HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, PHP, MySQL


Portfolio (more available upon request)

Lendkey (Customers)

http://www.lendkey.com/

Lendkey (Investors)

https://business.lendkey.com/

Jews For Jesus

https://jewsforjesus.org/

eShip Global

https://study.eshipglobal.com/


Various WordPress Consulting Projects	2005 - Present

Consulted for companies independently, as well as through agencies such as Mondo & Robert

Half (references available). Projects range from full stacks, frontend, backend, wordpress migrations, theme/plugin configurations, PSD to html. Biggest project to date was Burlington Coat Factory (one million dollar budget) Worked in teams consisting of project managers, graphic designers, marketing directors, social media directors, IT managers, VP’s, CTO’s, CFO’s, CEO’s and owners. Worked remotely in all 4 continental time zones as well as one international time zone (Tokyo). Worked on personal Wordpress Projects (contracted youtuber) that have reached traffic upwards of 100k monthly visitors with an A from Google analytics within 10 months of launching. Built a free music streaming service consisting of social media, spotify and youtube API’s. Used by thousand of users a day.


Most Recent WordPress Contracts

***Due to confidentiality agreements, for me to give details for some of my past work I am legally unable to provide some company names. Sorry for any inconvenience this may cause.

WEG	Chicago, IL, USA	July 2017 - March 2017

This contract role was a full stack role for a corporate staffing agency. The site featured a company job board along with compatibility with all internet browsers as well as mobile compatibility. This project started as a migration then transitioned into a full stack then turned to a management/maintenance of the company site after project completion.

E-Ship Global	Dallas, TX USA	May 2017 - June 2017

This was a consultant role. I was tasked with creating documentation for the client’s in house IT team. Their IT team wasn't familiar with wordpress or software used. The project was creating a vendor open face market for users to place and sell items to customers.

American Public University	Baltimore, MD USA	April 2017 - May 2017

Wordpress consultant managing the Learning Management System. The software consisted of implementing of organizing and managing courses based on client preference.

IBM	Chicago, IL USA	February 2017 - April 2017

This was a full stack project that I was flown to Chicago for. The $100 million government project was to revamp Cook County’s internal website. Cook county is the 2nd biggest county (after LA county in California) in the United States. A little over 24,000 employees are planned to use this site on a daily basis for all various types of county tasks & jobs. A team of 14 worked on or contributed to the project but I was the lone Wordpress “expert” to guide county officials, content writers, project manager, and designers from IBM on best CMS/Wordpress practices for a successful project.

Family Community Services of DelCo	Media, PA USA	December 2016 - January 2017

Full Stack WordPress project based on prior web designs

Website maintenance

Social Media & SEO

Design and layout Monthly Mailchimp Newsletter to subscribers

Where Is LoZo?	Moorestown, NJ USA	October 2016 - December 2016

Fullstack Wordpress project interactive fitness training website eCommerce based personal training site

Jews For Jesus	San Francisco, CA, USA	September 2016 - October 2016

Religious non profit organization that was formed in 1979 needed a site migration from Joomla to WordPress. This migration consisted of almost 10k articles (files) that were mis categorized by a failed attempt to migrate the site properly before I joined the project. I have a system of contingency plans when I start a migration that allows me to place 3 completely different fail safes simultaneously during my site migrations so EVERY file is accounted for. The migration also included 3rd party files such as mailchimp, application forms, contact forms and a woocommerce shop. Instead of restarting the migration (what the client had feared), I was able to patch up old errors, fix over 9k misdirected URL’s and properly set misshaped images to their original dimensions.

LendKey	Manhattan, NY USA	July 2016 - September 2016

Financial Tech company with over $1 billion worth of loans. I’m charged with replacing an outsource tech firm of multiple WordPress developers in handling of all WordPress projects. Migrating the company site, the company investor site and dozens of credit union landing pages. As well as updating all Wordpress

site, fixing any bugs created from the previous developers. I worked predominantly remote with both the New York office and Ohio office. I assist the Marketing Department in Creating new landing pages for the new credit Unions coming aboard. I assisted in all photoshop files that were used in every WordPress site. I lead daily onsite/google hangout production meetings with the CEO, Marketing Department, Project Managers and Software Engineers in ALL WordPress related matters








Confidential	Oklahoma City, OK USA	May 2016 - July 2016


Fast paced Ecommerce Auction website with User Vendor Capabilities. Open storefront allows for instant bid (purchases). Countdown clocks with scripted “next product up”. Front End product submission. Vendor flexibility to set price, bid window and all other product details User profiles and 3rd party checkouts via paypal. Responsive design for all platforms and compatible on all internet browsers. Responsive menu design, search feature and countdown clock for launch landing page. Sync both twitter and facebook accounts using Social Media API’s

Biolumina (Medical Marketing)	Manhattan, NY USA	(Project) April 2016

The project was for the Make A Wish foundation were it was a cross between a wordpress migration and PSD to html. I had a deadline within 4 weeks I finished with 2 with a Wordpress hack that I invented. The hack takes PSD files and allows you to bypass numerous steps to help you get to the end result. Saved the company time and money.

形見 (Ecommerce Subscription) Princeton, PA USA / Tokyo, Japan January 2016-April 2016

This project is a ECommerce website in which members can buy mementos from Japan and have them shipped to their door in an affordable, timely manner. The site is structure in WordPress and the design is is coded in HTML5, CSS3, JS, PHP, MySQL and Ajax. The site is completely responsive and is using the WooCommerce Plugin to manage all transactions.

Mondo (Agency)	Washington DC USA	January 2016

Client had a Custom field plugin that was crashing the site and not working properly. I edit the plugin from the Wordpress dashboard with PHP coding which allowed the plugin to let the developers add more fields to various information requesting pages on the website.

Arcweb Technologies Philadelphia, PA US (contract) November 2015 January 2016

This was a remote position where the objective was building the client's website/blog before deadline. The client had a website built entirely in HTML code and wanted to translate the site into WordPress. Based on my knowledge of the theme manipulation via code I was able to mimic the previous company website on WordPress ahead of schedule which allow me the extra time saved for site testing protocol.

Burlington Coat Factory	Burlington, NJ USA	(contract) July 2015 October 2015

Building the company's employee interface with the Oracle content management system. The site will be a employee

hub for their 500+ stores, 15k executive/store employees and several distribution centers. The site is used for HR,

payroll, scheduling and all other company operations. The system requires dead accurate html and css coding.

Photoshop skills are a must for this contract. I also have to discuss the technicality of the site in laymen's terms to

Project managers, a communications director and Windows IT managers in daily meetings. I also train new staffers in

CMS to assist me with my work. I work in house alongside with a remote firm (New Orleans) in building this system

before the company's fast

approaching deadline.

Medical Marketing Agency	King of Prussia, PA USA	(2 week contract) July 2015

This employer was behind a deadline with a project in 30 % completion. The whole site was created from a

PSD from the graphics dept on site. My job was to redo the entire company website in according the project managers, account manager and VP’s layout.. I was able to finish before the deadline.

Home Interior/Exterior Company	Havertown, PA USA  January 2015 May 2015

Full stack contract. Build site complete with Ecommerce store to sell home remodeling tools and/or to purchase service. Create online visual portfolio of companies past assignments. Use Social Media API’s to link all Facebook, Instagram and Twitter accounts to website. Conduct social media contest to build online presence.

Real Estate Developer Philadelphia, PA USA (Contract) November 2014 January 2015

The client is a luxury condominium developer in Philadelphia. The site requires me to use some unique plugins but due to the site's complexity I exercise my PHP knowledge to adjust code of the backend of most of the plugins in use mainly for the Google turn by turn directions.