Rohini
224-801-2086
Rohanuj08@gmail.com

PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY: 
Having 8 years of experience in all the technical phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Requirement Analysis, Design, Implementation and Testing in both Web based and Enterprise applications with emphasis on Object Oriented, Java/J2EE and Client Server technologies.
Experience in developing the application with Agile Methodology, Waterfall Methodology and Test-Driven Development.
Experience in Front-End UI technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JSON, Ajax, AngularJS,NodeJS, Bootstrap, Tag Libraries, JSTL.
Good working knowledge  with Java 1.8 features like stream, Lambda expressions and functional interfaces etc.
Having experience with Cloud Computing environment like Pivotal Cloud Foundry, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Docker Containers.
Handled operations and maintenance support for AWS cloud resources which includes launching, maintaining and troubleshooting EC2 instances, S3 buckets, Auto Scaling, Dynamo DB, AWS IAM, Elastic Load Balancers (ELB) and Relational Database Services (RDS).
Proficient in developing J2EE enterprise applications in Service Oriented Architecture and Micro Service Architecture.
Hands on Experience in developing web applications by using Spring framework modules like Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Batch and Spring Data.
Expertise in developing data models using Hibernate Object relational mapping (ORM) frame work and used Hibernate Annotations to reduce time at the configuration level
Expert in Core Java with strong understanding of Garbage Collector, Collections, Multithreading, Event handling, Exception handling and Generics.
Expertise in J2EE Technology- Servlets, Struts, Spring, JDBC, JTA, JPA, Hibernate and JMS.
Experience with distinctive design patterns like Singleton, Factory, Prototype, Business Delegate, Session Facade, Service locator, Visitor, Observer, Decorator, Front Controller, DAO and MVC.
Worked with design and development of robust and highly scalable Web Service platforms and API’s based on REST and SOAP for enterprise applications using AXIS, WSDL, UDDI, XML, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JAXB, JAX-RPC technologies and Jersey frameworks.
Good knowledge in mean stack for building dynamic web applications and and websites.
Expertise in XML technologies such as XSL, XSLT, XML schemas, XPath, XForms, XSL-FO and parsers
like SAX, DOM
Expertise in back-end/server side java technologies such as: Web services, Java persistence API (JPA), Java Messaging Service (JMS), Java Database Connectivity (JDBC) and Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI). 
Experienced in building Web Services for Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).
Good Understanding in databases such as Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, NoSQL, Mongo DB and IBM DB2 databases to manage tables, views, indexes, sequences, stored procedures, functions, triggers and packages
Experience in JMS over messaging to exchange the information in more reliable and asynchronously for enterprise applications using Active MQ and Rabbit MQ.
Proficient with build automation tools like Gradle, Maven and Ant for builds and deployments to different environments.
Experience on different IDEs such as Eclipse, RAD, Spring Tool Suite, IntelliJ and deployment using Application Servers like Apache Tomcat, BEA WebLogic, Web Sphere, Glassfish, Camel and JBOSS
Experience with JUnit, Mockito, Log4j in developing test cases and determining application functionality.
Experience on UNIX/LINUX Shell Scripting and Deployment of Applications in Server.
Decent Experience in using code repository tools GIT, Tortoise SVN, and Visual Source Safe.
Strong communication and analytical skills and a demonstrated ability to handle multiple tasks as well as work independently or in a team.

TECHNICAL SKILLS: 


PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: 

Client: T-Mobile                                                                                                                                                      May’17 – Till date
Location: Bellevue, WA                                                                                                             	                                        
Role: Sr. Full Stack Java/J2EE Developer 

Description: T-Mobile Synaptic Storage as a Service is a web services-based storage solution that easily scales up and down to any size you need and allows you to pay only for the storage you use. It provides elastic capacity on demand with no Commitments, minimums, or limits and allows access to your stored data from virtually anywhere and anytime.
Responsibilities:
Worked on High level and low level system design, planning, estimation and implementation
Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML5, CSS3 and client validation using JavaScript.
Developed Single page application and structured the JavaScript code using AngularJS.
Design and develop template based User Interface using Bootstrap and Angular JS.
Handled all the client side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation using JQuery.
Worked on Java 1.8 features such as Lambda Expressions for making anonymous inline function calls by using Functional Interfaces which makes code readable and concise.
Excellent in deploying the applications in AWS as EC2 instances and create snapshots for the data that must be stored in AWS S3.
Utilized Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 to deploy Docker containers.
Create and configured the continuous delivery pipelines for deploying Micro Services and Lambda functions using Jenkins CI server.
Worked on development and implementation of the MVC Architectural pattern using Spring Framework.
Developed the application with various Spring Framework modules like Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring Batch.
Developed web applications as per requirement.
Used Spring MVC framework at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application so that complexity of integration will be reduced and maintenance will be very easy.
Used Spring AOP for solving crosscutting concerns like keeping customer log data and transactions details etc.
Implemented Batch jobs to deal with large number of chunks using Spring Batch Framework to execute the similar jobs simultaneously.  
Designed and integrated the full-scale Hibernate persistence solution with the application architecture.
Involved in design and development of the Hibernate Domain Model for the service.
Involved in using JPA (Java Persistence API) frameworks and APIs as JDO and Hibernate.
Enterprises Integrated Pattern Implemented with Apache Camel(ESB).
Developed a RESTful based service for data retrieval to make it independent of the current application.
Involved on development of RESTFul web services using JAX-RS in a Spring based project.
Proficient in Application Development/Maintenance using Legacy RPI languages.
Worked on XML and JSON for transferring and retrieving data between different applications.
Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from MongoDB for the application on devices.
Websphere  is used as an Application Server to Deploy the Application.
Experience in using JUnit and build tools such as MAVEN.
Collaborated with testers and developers and prepared test plans for producing high quality software applications
Worked on Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs

Environment: Agile, Java 1.8, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, Ajax. Bootstrap, JavaScript, AngularJS, NodeJS, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring boot, spring security, OAuth , XML, GIT, JSP, JUnit, Maven, IBM WebSphere, Apache AXIS, JAX-WS, Restful, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Micro Services, Log4J, Oracle, Mongo DB, WSD, JIRA and Spring Tool Suite.

Client: Anthem BCBS						                                                                   Aug’16 – May’17
Location: Columbus, OH         	   	    		                                                   
Role: Java/J2EE Developer 

Description: BCBS – Anthem is a leading health insurance provider in USA. The Website offers various services like Medicaid plans, Insurance plans (Health, Vision, and Dental) and Care to Individuals, Families, Employers and Brokers. Care Application helps the users to find their doctor, hospital, pharmacy based on their in-network. Also, designed a web application helps the agent to get update on the available health plans. It allows to fetch the client's data and facilities the information about their health plans expiration and renewal details. 

Responsibilities:
Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle process using Agile Methodology.
Developed presentation layer using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery and Angular JS.
Design and developed template based User Interface using Bootstrap and Angular JS.
Handled all the client side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation using JQuery.
Designed and developed application using Spring Framework modules like Spring IOC, Spring AOP and handled security using Spring Security Oauth.
Spring MVC model integration for front-end request action controller and Spring AOP for logging purposes.
Used Spring IOC for dependency injection and developed controllers for handling Http requests and providing Http response.
Experience in Pivotal cloud foundry setup Configuration/maintenance.
Configuring LDAP for authorization, configuring Loggregrator for logs in PCF.
Developed REST and SOAP based Web Services for data retrieval to make it independent of the current application.
Implemented RESTful web services using JAX-RS and Jersey as provider.
Implemented Service Oriented Architecture by SOAP based Web Services with JAX-WS and WSDL.
Worked on XML and JSON for transferring and retrieving data between different applications.
Involved in using JPA (Java Persistence API) frameworks and APIs as JDO and Hibernate.
Developed the DAO layer for the application using Spring Integration and Hibernate template support.
Used JMS API for communication between the components.
Established connection to Oracle database with Spring Integration, Hibernate and created POJOs for mapping with the database tables.  
Experience in writing complex PL/SQL queries using joins, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, cursors, and indexes in Data Access Layer.
Developed test cases for Unit Testing, Integration Testing with JUnit.
Collaborated with testers and developers and prepared test plans for producing high quality software applications
Worked on Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs.
Used Maven as build automation tool and deployments are on Web Sphere Application Server.
Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Spring Tool Suite (STS) IDE for application development.

Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery, AngularJS, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Hibernate, JDBC, REST, SOAP, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, WSDL, Service Oriented Architecture, Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, Unit Testing, JUnit, Log4j, Maven, PCF,Web Sphere Application Server, Jenkins and Spring Tool Suite (STS).

Client: Assurant Inc                                                                                                                                                Sep’14 – July’16
Location: Miami, FL						
Role: Java/J2EE Developer

Description: Assurant Inc is a holding company with businesses that provide a diverse set of specialties, market insurance products in the property, casualty, life and health insurance sectors and including placed insurance product.

Responsibilities: 
Involved in all phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) using Agile Methodology.
Developed User Interface using JSP, JSTL, HTML, CSS, Java Script, JQuery and Angular JS.
Developed client side application with Angular JS in a clean Model View Controller (MVC) Architecture.
Involved in component development using J2EE principles and used design patterns such as Singleton, Factory and Data Access Object (DAO) in the implementation of the application.
Used Spring MVC and Dependency Injection for handling presentation and business logic.
To maintain loose coupling between layers published the business layer as services and injected necessary dependent components using Spring IOC and published cross cutting concerns like Logging, User Interface exceptions, Transactions using Spring AOP.
Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate.
Implemented persistence framework using Hibernate & Handled Transaction Management using the provided data source.
Used Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of the application.
Extensively used JSON to parse the data from server side to satisfy the business requirement.
Responsible for designing Hibernate mapping files based on business logic and Object relationships.
Integrated Spring and Hibernate together and worked on developing backend components and services using Hibernate and spring.
Established Database Connectivity using JDBC, Hibernate O/R mapping with Spring ORM for Oracle. 
Worked on Hibernate for mapping the java objects to relational database and SQL queries to fetch the data, insert and update the data from the database. 
Used Hibernate in Data Access Layer to access and update information in the database. 
Extensively used HQL and SQL for querying databases. 
Consumed Web Services to interact with other external interfaces in order to exchange the data in different forms by using Restful service.
Implemented SOA architecture with Web Services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML using Apache CXF framework and worked on parsing the XML files using DOM/SAX parsers.
Created tables, triggers, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, SQL queries, Joins, i2ntegrity constraints and views for IBM DB2.
Used Multithreading in programming to improve overall performance using Singleton design pattern in Hibernate Utility class. 
Implemented Restful and SOAP based Web Services and used Soap UI for testing.
Used Spring JMS module for lookup for the queues and MDBs for the listeners.
Involved in Unit Testing of various modules by generating the Test Cases.
Performed deployment of applications on Web Logic Server.
Written LINUX shell scripts to identify user login information.
Involved in day to day handling of JIRA issues (production issues at time) that involved data inconsistencies that required to be solved in very less time.
Worked with Eclipse IDE and used Gradle build tool to achieve more functionality for build process.
Used Jenkins as build management tool for continuous integration process and used Git as Version Control tool.
Involved in Bug fixing of various modules that were raised by the testing teams in the application during the Integration testing phase.
Participated in Code Reviews of other modules, documents, test cases.

Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Fry, JSP, JSTL,  Spring, Hibernate, XML, XSD, Web Services, Restful, SOAP, WSDL, Log4j, JUnit, DB2, Web Logic, Jenkins, Gradle, GIT, Eclipse, JIRA, Agile Methodology, Windows, Linux, Rational Rose.

Client: Health Connection                                                                                                                                       June’13 – Sep’14
Location: MN						
Role: Java/J2EE Developer

Description: Health Connection is a Minnesota non-profit that acts as an intermediary, working with government and community social service agencies to help people with very long histories of homelessness move into and prosper in supportive housing. The purpose of Pilot is to provide an automated system that enables the consistent collection, management, and reporting of information for the Supportive Housing and Managed Care Pilot.

Responsibilities:
Involved in System Analysis and Design methodology as well as Object Oriented Design and development using OOAD methodology to capture and model business requirements.
Involved in Java Multithreading to cascade multiple changes on multiple records in only one transaction
Responsible for JAVA, J2EE, JSF, JBPM, EL and Java FX coding / development.
Using Struts Framework developed and implemented the web-based application following the MVC.
Used Spring MVC as Web module, involved in design, development of new Action classes to interact with business logic and Used Hibernate as ORM to map Java classes to data base tables.
Implemented J2EE patterns, Data Access Object (DAO), Session facade, Business Delegate and Value Object.
Implemented the service layer using Spring 2.5 with transaction and logging interceptors.
Fixing the bugs and developing new enhancements using JAVA/J2EE, spring, Hibernate, IBM Web Sphere.
Used spring framework for middle tier and Spring-hibernate for data access.
Used Twitter Bootstrap to create responsive web pages which can be displayed properly in different screen sizes.
Implemented SOA to develop REST Based Web services using Apache Axis. 
Used multithreading to improve performance in generating the reports in Java.
Extensively developed User defined Custom JSP tags to separate presentation from application logic.
Designed and developed Web Services (SOAP, WSDL). Created and compiled XML Schema to generate Java Bean classes using Apache Axis.
Installation, Configuration & administration of WebLogic application Server.
Used AngularJS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as SPA.
Developed HTML and JavaScript. Developed Scripts for UNIX platform deployment.
Used ANT for compilation and building JAR, WAR and EAR files.
Used Log4J, Splunk for logging and tracing the messages.
Deployed the Application into Docker container and made easily accessible at runtime using Cloud Foundry and other cloud services like AWS, Netflix Eureka, Spring Hystrix as fallback method, Spring Ribbon for load balancing and a broker service to maintain status using Spring Kafka and Zookeeper.
Implemented Test Scripts based on the User Requirements as specified by the Business side and Requirement document and analyzing Business Requirements and handling it as per Requirements. 
Project coordination with other Development teams, System managers and web master and developed good working environment.

Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, JSF, Spring DI/IOC, Hibernate, XML, JBPM, HTML, JDBC, Web services, Rational Software Architect, Web Services (SOAP/WSDL and REST), Multithreading, Web Logic Application Server, Junit, Maven, Log4J, SVN, Oracle10g, UNIX.

Client : Meridian Soft, Hyderabad, India                                                                                                        Apr’11 -   May’13                                 
Location: Hyderabad, India 						                       
Role: Java/J2EE Developer

Description: This project was designed to build a Common Access Platform for customers and insurance agents using the Internet to interact with the system from any part and allow the customers to buy insurance online. Also, used by the HR department to manage the vast information generated due to massive business operations. The main objective is to help in tracking HR related issues, optimize and increase the productivity.

Responsibilities:
Involved in Requirement Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of the risk workflow system.
Involved in the implementation of design using vital phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) that includes Development, Testing, Implementation and Maintenance Support in WATER FALL methodology.
Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using Struts, JSP, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery and JavaScript.
Responsible for designing, coding and developed the application in J2EE using Struts MVC.
Implemented Struts framework (Action & Controller classes) for dispatching request to appropriate classes. 
Used simple Struts Validation for validation of user input as per the business logic and initial data loading.
Achieved synchronization of multiple threads through Multithreading and Exception Handling.
Extensively used JSON to parse the data from server side to satisfy the business requirement.
Developed Struts Action Forms, Action classes and performed action mapping using Struts. 
Developed batch job using EJB scheduling and leveraged container managed transactions for highly transactions.
Involved in developing Web Services to send XML request and reading the response SOAP UI from Java platform.
Used various Core Java concepts such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Collection APIs, Garbage collections for dynamic memory allocation to implement various features and enhancements.
Consumed Web Services to interact with other external interfaces in order to exchange the data in different forms by using Restful service.
Established Database Connectivity using JDBC for Oracle. 
Used Log4J for application logging and notification tracing mechanisms.
Developed the ANT scripts for preparing WAR files used to deploy J2EE components.
Analysis and Bug fixing of the production problems and defects along with enhancements.
Implemented JUNIT test cases for unit testing and Suites for end to end testing.
Used JIRA for tracking the Project Stories and bug fixing.
Used SVN to check-in and check-out and co-ordinate among team members for Version Controlling.

Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, JSON, XML, Struts, JDBC, IBATIS, Web Services, SOAP UI, Restful, HQL, SQL, JBOSS, Oracle, ANT, Eclipse IDE, JIRA, Tortoise SVN, and UNIX.

Client: Kofax India Pvt. Ltd                                                                                                                                   Aug’09 – Apr’11
Location: Hyderabad, India					           			
Role: Jr. Java Developer

Description: Aim of this Project to sale and allocate the flat to customer and generate agreement such as UDS agreement, allotment letter, sale agreement, amenities agreement based on the project, document, survey, survey direction, tower, floor, flat area price, flat booking and customer details.
Responsibilities:
Developed the application based on MVC architecture.
Developed web application using JSP, Servlets, Java beans that uses MVC design pattern.
Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML, CSS and JSP.
Wrote JavaScript for client side validation.
Used Java Swings in designing user interfaces.
Used Java Fundamentals and OOPS concepts like inheritance, polymorphism, abstraction to develop the code. 
Implemented core java concepts like Multithreading, Exception Handling and Collection wherever necessary. 
Used Eclipse as IDE tool for creating Servlets, JSP, and XML.
Wrote SQL for JDBC prepared statements to retrieve the data from database.
Monitored the logs using Log4J and fixed the problem.
The Application was deployed on Apache Tomcat Server.
Involved in build and deploying the application using ANT.
Used Configuration Management Tools for version control which is built on CVS.
Worked on bug fixing and Production Support.

Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, MVC Design pattern, PL/SQL, Log4J, Apache Tomcat server, My SQL, Eclipse IDE, CVS, ANT, Log4J.