Sai Srinivas 
Sr. Java/J2EE Developer
              
           Cell: (708) 669-6793                                       Email: sai.srinivas.2101@gmail.com 
Summary:
9+ years of experience in development and implementation of Web-based Client-Server applications using Java and J2EE technologies.
Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) and familiarity of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).
Expert in HTML5/CSS3 development and have experience in Backbone.js, Require.js, node.js, angular.js, Grunt js, Responsive design.
Expertise in application development using JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, spring, Hibernate, JSF, EJB2.0/3.0, XML, Web Services- SOAP, WSDL.
Expert in HTML5/CSS3 development and have experience in Angular.js, Node.js, Backbone.js, Knockout.js, Responsive design. 
Experienced as a Java/J2EE programmer, developing applications using Servlets, JSP, Struts, RMI, JDBC, Hibernate and MVC. 
Experience in working with java for writing custom UDFs to extend Hive and Pig core functionality.
Expertise in XML and related technologies like XSL, XSLT and parsers like JAXP (SAX, DOM) and JAXB Experience in Database Design, Creation and management of Schemas, writing Stored Procedures, functions, Triggers, DDL, DML SQL queries. Experience in writing SQL and PL/SQL programming.
Involved in building and deploying Apache ANT/ MAVEN scripts for deployment and customizing WAR/ JAR file management for web applications.
Extensive experience in developing GUI using HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, JSF/Prime Faces, Angular JS, Bootstrap JS and AJAX.
 Responsible for setting up Angular JS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and Angular.JS.
Architecting and implementing Portfolio Recommendation Analytics Engine using Hadoop MR, Oozie, Spark SQL, Spark Mlib and Cassandra.
Expertise in using configuration management tool like CVS and GIT for version controlling.
Expert in Various Agile methodologies like SCRUM, Test Driven Development, Incremental and Iteration methodology and Pair Programming as well as implementing Waterfall model.
Knowledge of Multithreading/synchronization, NoSQL Database: MongoDB.
Experience in using PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers.
Excellent technical and analytical skills with clear understanding of design goals of ER modeling for OLTP and dimension modeling for OLAP.
Strong expertise on Amazon AWS EC2, S3, Kinesis and other services.
Strong experience in migrating data warehouses and databases into Hadoop/NoSQL platforms.
Experience includes Requirements Gathering, Design, Development, Integration, Documentation, Testing and Build.
Experience in working with Map Reduce programs, Pig scripts and Hive commands to deliver the best results.
Experienced in Collected logs data from various sources and integrated in to HDFS using Flume and experience in developing custom UDFs for Hive.
Experienced in testing data in HDFS and Hive for each transaction of data.
Experienced in importing and exporting data using Sqoop from HDFS to Relational Database Systems and vice-versa.
Experienced with Akka building high performance and reliable distributed applications in Java and Scala.
Knowledge and experience in job work-flow scheduling and monitoring tools like Oozie and Zookeeper.
Hands on experience in Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, C#, JavaScript. 
Knowledge of Eclipse tool for the development of Java projects. 
Hands on experience Struts and Spring.
Good experience in Shell programming.
Knowledge in configuration and managing - Cloudera’s Hadoop platform along with CDH3&4 clusters.
Experienced in developing web based GUIs using JavaScript, JSP, HTML, JQuery , XML and CSS.

Technical Skills:

Java/J2EE Technologies: JDBC, Java Script, JSP, Servlets, JQuery   
Languages: Java, J2EE, PL/SQL, Pig Latin, HQL, R, Python, XPath, Spark
Frameworks: MVC, Struts, Spring, Hibernate.
Databases: Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i, Microsoft Access, MS SQL
No SQL Databases: Cassandra, mongo DB
Web Technologies: HTML, DHTML, XML, XHTML, JavaScript, CSS, XSLT, EME AWS.
Web/Application servers: Apache Tomcat6.0/7.0/8.0, JBoss
Operating Systems: UNIX, Ubuntu Linux and Windows, Centos, Sun Solaris.
Network protocols: TCP/IP fundamentals, LAN and WAN.
Hadoop/Big Data: MapReduce, HDFS, Hive, Pig, HBase, Zookeeper, Sqoop, Oozie,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Flume, Scala, Akka, Kafka, Storm, MONGODB.


Professional Experience:


BNFS, Fort Worth, TX
Sr. Java/J2EE Developer
Sep. 16 - Present
Responsibilities:

Designed use cases for the Application as per the business requirements.
Participated in requirement gathering and framework implementation sessions through Agile TDD methodology.
Experienced developing against SOLR Search Platform APIs
Developed and deployed solution using several new technologies, including Linux - Ubuntu, Drupal and Apache SOLR.
Developed and delivered SOAP based Web Servicesfor our new clients used Apache-CXF and SOAP UI to test the services.
Experience in creating Models, Controllers, Templates, Custom Directives, Components, Filters and Services in Angular.JS.
Extensively used Core Java such as Exceptions, and Collections
Used JSTL and developed required tiles and tile definitions for templating and defined configuration in the struts configuration.xml.
Created reusable Angular.js html templates using custom templates.
Resolve Micros xStore  issues, restore databases, re-image and replace devices
Processing data ingestion and entity resolution using Hadoop and Pig.
Applied Hadoop MapReduce to reduce processing time from two weeks per year of data to one day.
Experience with Core Java with Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling, File handling, IO, Generics, Data structures and Collections, Garbage Collection.
Tackle highly imbalanced Fraud dataset using undersampling with ensemble methods, oversampling and cost sensitive algorithms.
Developed business layer using EJB stateless session beans and deployed on the Application server (Web logic). 
Built restful web services using MongoDB/Node.JS and implemented the front-end using jQuery and Angular.JS controllers, directives, and service.
Created Composite Applications, Home Security components and Adapters by using Oracle SOA technology. 
Developed major websites and services by including Mongo DB as backend software.
Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.
Configured servlets, java classes, Spring Framework, Hibernate, database drivers, data sources related to project.
Strong expertise on Amazon AWS EC2, S3, Kinesis and other services.
Worked on Integration of Spring and Hibernate Frameworks using Spring ORM Module.  
Manage day to day operations of the PPM application and their associated SLA's.
Provide ongoing support of vertical PMO groups relative to PPM and D&B's SDLC policy.
Configured CA Clarity PPM application to support ongoing business initiatives and processes.
Experience in AWS, implementing solutions using services like (EC2, S3, RDS, Redshift, VPC).
Developed the front end user interfaces using JSP, JSTL, JQuery  , Java Script, AJAX, JSON, HTML, Angular JS and CSS.
Use Java, J2EE technologies to develop UI and server side components. Use Struts and Spring framework to implement MVC design patter.
Developing the components using advanced Java 8 concepts like Stream API and Parallel Streams.
Developed software components for the Microkernel team using JAVA8 /J2EE.
Integrated subsystems using SOAP based Web services and Apache Axis2.
Involved in architecture, design, development of projects in AJAX based Java Script with Dojo toolkit and JSON API with JSP.
Implemented Service oriented architecture (SOA) using RESTful web services.
Developed Web Services to create reports module and send it to different agencies and premium calculation for manual classes using SOAP and RESTful web services and rich faces components.
Designed and developed a RESTful hub application which resolved the Single-Sign-On authentication of the target secured REST services.
Involved in a project Development using Spring Web Flow and Hybris and developed front-end UI with JSF Richfaces, Backbone.js, JQuery, CSS3 Dojo and AJAX.
Involved using Backbone.Js for providing a structure to web applications.
Maintain and developed Mantis bug management system for internal usage, using MySQL/PHP, Bootstrap, Backbone.js.
Experience in performance tuning of Cassandra and implementation of agile-scrum methodology and service desk implementing.
Experienced in job workflow scheduling and monitoring tools like Oozie and Zookeeper.
Worked on Spark, Scala, Python, Storm Impala.
Extensive experience in Spark Streaming (version 1.5.2) through core Spark API running Scala, Java to transform raw data from several data sources into forming baseline data.
Created Hive External tables and loaded the data into tables and query data using HQL.
Experience in different Hadoop distributions like Cloudera (CDH3 & CDH4) and Horton Works Distributions (HDP) and MapR.
Worked with AWS to implement the client-side encryption as Dynamo DB does not support at REST encryption at this time.  

Environment: Java, J2EE, JAXB, RESTful, CSS3, JSON, Node.js, React.js, Big Data, Spark, HIVE, Pig, Scala, Python, Hadoop, AWS, Dynamo DB, Kibana, JDBC, Redshift, NOSQL, Data structures, Sqoop, MYSQL.





UST Global, Thousand Oaks, CA
Sr. Java/J2EE Developer
Mar. 15 to Aug. 16
Responsibilities:

Subject matter expert in enterprise search engine analysis, design, development and systems integration. Search engines include Autonomy IDOL Server, MOSS 2007, Endeca, Lucene/Solr and Microsoft FAST 2010 for SharePoint 2010, SharePoint 2013.
Responsible for writing J2EE compliant Java code for application development effort which involved working with JSP, Servlets, JDBC, XML, EJB, etc.
Responsible to maintain HTML5, CSS3 in JQuery as well as keeping the pages dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML.
Involved in developing the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery
Experience in using design patterns and UI frameworks such as MVC, Struts, Hibernate, NodeJS, Spring.
Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Backbone.js, Require.js and Node.js.
Experience in developing scalable front-end user interfaces using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, JQuery, Angular.JS and Mongo DB.
Worked with NO SQL and Big data technologies such as Mongo db, Cassandra, Hadoop and Docker.
Used Spring Data Mongo DB as the persistence framework in retrieving the user and medical benefits details from Mongo DB.
Strong understanding of Hadoop eco system such as HDFS, MapReduce, HBase, Zookeeper, Pig, Hadoop streaming, Sqoop, Oozie and Hive.
Used React JS and Node JS to develop faster, scalable application.
Extensively used React JS, Node JS, Backbone JS, Angular JS, JavaScript, Typescript and jQuery to provide UI functionality.
Responsible for developing a front-end application using React JS and Flux architecture for internal teams productivity use.
Used Web services and Dozer mapping for backend mapping and UI, Business services mapping.
Built data visualizations to monitor file server load, web server speeds, data processing and more using D3, Backbone.js.
Created web application prototype using jQuery and Backbone.Js.
Migrated CareFirst's My Account Java stack pages into React.js stack.
Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.
Optimize algorithm with stochastic gradient descent algorithm Fine-tuned the algorithm parameter with manual tuning and automated tuning such as Bayesian Optimization.
Worked closely with the Business/Users team in translating technical requirements into application code
Developed web layer using Struts framework to manage the project in MVC pattern. 
Implemented integration of Struts Action classes in Presentation Tier.
Utilized Node.js to create a fast and efficient chat server.
Used Struts Tiles Framework for designing the layout of the application.
Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and JavaScript
Used Hibernate as persistence framework for DAO layer to access the Oracle10g database.
Worked on Eclipse for development and deployment of application in Web Logic Application Server. 
Creating Angular Services using factory services to implement the business logic.
Responsible for coding, testing and documenting various packages, procedures, and functions for libraries. 
Proficient in using SVN for Version Control. 
Actively involved in code reviews and also in bug fixing.
Implemented Installation and configuration of multi-node cluster on Cloud using Amazon Web Services(AWS) on EC2.
AWS Cloud and On-Premise environments with Infrastructure Provisioning / Configuration.

Environment: Java, JSP, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, Ant, Elastic, Struts, POS, DOJO, Drools, Hbase, Solr, Marklogic, Spring , MICROS, Hibernate, RSA, WebSphere Application Server, AWS,  DB2, Agile, XML, LDAP.


Comerica, Dallas, Texas
Sr. Java/J2EE Developer
June 14 to Feb.16 
Responsibilities:

Implementing Spring MVC and IOC methodologies.
Development, enhancement and testing of the Web Methods flow services and Java services. 
Used web services for interaction between various components and created SOAP envelopes. 
Paypal had their own application stack for REST based Java application, understood their architecture before design and development.
Used Spring MVC, IOC and Eclipse IDE, GitHub, JSF, D3.js, OOAD, AWS, RCP, SPA, Python, Hibernate, Multithreading, NetBeans to develop intranet web application.
Proficient coder in multiple languages and environments including Python, Django, C, C++ and SQL.
Hands on experience in Html, CSS Java Script, BootStrap, Ajax, php.	
Created frontend screens using GWT framework.
Experience in working with the NoSQL, Mongo DB, and Apache Cassandra.	
Resolving scalability and performance issues both in Applications as well as in Web sphere/Web Logic Application Servers.
Experience in developing Web based GUI’s using JSP, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript (and its frameworks like JSON), Action Script, DOJO, Node JS, Angular JS, JQuery, EXT JS and Ajax.
Experience in web applications creation with HTML5, Ajax, JQuery, Backbone.js, and CSS3.
Performed UNIX Shell scripting for the application. 
Experience in development of JavaScript for client side validations. 
Designed/developed UI with AJAX, HTML, DHTML and JavaScript for interactive web pages. 
Design the J2EE components of the Restful Web Services and scheduled Java batch jobs based application in UML. 		
Created Web Services (SOAP) between different components and also exposed few web services to client apps get metadata for the specific entities and documents. 
Developed common reusable component libraries (CRUD Scaffolding) to be reused in different projects throughout the company's IT team using GWT, Sencha, Spring data, JPA. 
Implemented application specific exception handling and logging frame work using Log4j 
Involved in developing the component which provides the required information to Reporting system to generate the trend analysis reports for user attempts, success, user failures and system failures. 
Involved in complete development of 'Agile Development Methodology/SCRUM' and tested the application in each iteration.
Involved in with xml, MVC, Backbone, svn Synfony2.
Improve the performance of the application by using the Performance Tuning and Time lines for each module of the Application. Based on Time lines decrease the page loads and increase the total performance of the application. 
Implemented Core Java Methodologies like Interfaces, Collections, Customized Exceptions and Multi-Threading. 
Designed and developed the process of synchronizing and Multi-Threading for each module of the application.
Experiences in Web Programming and User Interface Development having hand on experience on python, MySQL.
Programming experience in node.js, mongo db, java and MySQL.
Solved Production Support defects by using tool HP Tracing. Based on priority of the defect solve the all production support defects. 
Used Subversion for activities tracking Version Controlling and Change Management that is tracking structure of folders, maintaining global revision number for the whole repository and Clear Case operations.

Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, XML, XSLT, Eclipse, Spring Web MVC, Hibernate, WebLogic, SOAP, JAXP, JAXB, Oracle, SQL , JUNIT.                                                                                                                  





Signature Bank, New York, NY
Sr. Java Developer
Mar.12 to May 14
Responsibilities:


Worked on Java and JSON, to interact and get the data from csv files as we are prototyping the user Experience. 
Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.	
Experience in build management with Ant Script
Developed the application using Struts Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.
Front end design using HTML CSS Bootstrap. 
Implemented Business processes such as user authentication, Account Transfer using Session EJBs.
Extensively developed stored procedures, triggers, functions and packages in oracle SQL, PL/SQL.
Developed the front end using HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, JSP, CSS, JQuery, and XML. 
Developed POJO's, Data Access Object (DAO) which handles all database operations using Hibernate. 	
Developed and configured Oracle Database 10g tables including Sequences, Functions, Procedures and Table constraints.
Experience in using design patterns and UI frameworks such as MVC, Struts, Hibernate, NodeJS, and spring.
Strong knowledge in developing and designing web 2.0 application according to Information architecture and Usability standards using Ajax, JQuery, Backbone.js, XML, Symfony 2, CSS3 and MVC frameworks.
Implementation of the Business logic layer for Mongo DB Services.		
Implemented the Animation and styling using CSS3 and JQuery. 
Developed logging module-using Log4J to create log files to debug as well as trace application.	
Developing data access layer using IBATIS -ORM and JDBC. 	
Involved in JUnit Testing, debugging, and bug fixing. 
Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions and developed WAR framework to alert the client and production support in case of application failures. 
	
Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, XML, XSLT, Eclipse, Spring Web MVC, Hibernate 4.0, WebLogic 10.3, WSDL, SOAP, JAXP, JAXB, Oracle 11g, SQL, HP Quality Center, JUNIT, Ant.



PRIMIER SOFTWARE, Bangalore
Java Developer
Sep.08 to Feb.12
Responsibilities:

Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development. 
Developed a prototype of the application and demonstrated to business users to verify the application functionality.
Developing front end of application using HTML, CSS, backbone.js, javascript, jQuery. 
Design, develop and implement MVC Pattern based Keyword Driven automation testing framework utilizing Java, JUnit and Selenium WebDriver.  
Used automated scripts and performed functionality testing during the various phases of the application development using Selenium.
Used Angular js framework where data from backend is stored in model and populated it to UI.
Prepared user documentation with screenshots for UAT (User Acceptance testing). 
Environment: Java, Javascript, HTML, CSS, Xpath, Selenium Webdriver, Eclipse, JUnit, Jmeter, Jira, Windows, Mac OSX, Oracle 10g, Agile Methodology.
Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Struts Framework including JSP, Servlets, EJB, Form Bean and Action classes.
Hands on experience with MVC Javascript frameworks such as Backbone.js, Angular.js and Node.js. 
Implemented server side tasks using Servlets and XML. 
Helped developed page templates using Struts Tiles framework. 
Implemented Struts Validation Framework for Server side validation. 
Developed JSP's with Custom Tag Libraries for control of the business processes in the middle-tier and was involved in their integration. 
Implemented Struts Action classes using Struts controller component. 
Developed Web services (SOAP) through WSDL in Apache Axis to interact with other components. 
Implemented EJBs Session beans for business logic. 
Used parsers like SAX and DOM for parsing xml documents and used XML transformations using XSLT. 
Wrote stored procedures, triggers, and cursors using Oracle PL/SQL. 
Created and deployed web pages using HTML, JSP, Javascript and CSS. 
Wrote JUnit Test cases for performing unit testing. 
Used Rational Clear Case as Version control. 
Implemented Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO), Data Access Object and Service Locator. 
Interact with clients to understand their needs and propose design to the team to implement the requirement.
Built Angular js framework including MVC architectures, different modules, specific controllers’ templates, custom directives and custom filters.

Environment: Java, JSP, JDBC, Spring Core , Struts , Hibernate , Design Patterns, XML, Oracle, PL/SQL Developer, Web services, SOAP, XSLT, Jira.