
PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY: 

9+ years of experience in development and implementation of Web-based Client-Server applications using Java and J2EE technologies.
Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) and familiarity of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).
Expert in HTML5/CSS3 development and have experience in Backbone.js, Require.js, node.js, angular.js, Grunt js, Responsive design.
Expertise in application development using JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, spring, Hibernate, JSF, EJB2.0/3.0, XML, Web Services- SOAP, WSDL.
Expertise in XML and related technologies like XSL, XSLT, XPATH and parsers like JAXP (SAX, DOM) and JAXB.
Good knowledge on Big data technologies like Spark, Scala, Hadoop, Map-Reduce, HDFS, Hive, HBase, Zookeeper, Kafka.
Excellent Java development skills with core Java8, JDBC, Hibernate  and solid experience in MVC architecture, using Spring 3, Spring MVC, Struts 2.
Expertise in designing and developing enterprise applications using J2EE technologies like EJB2.1/3.0, Struts 1.2/2.0,Spring 3.0 and 4.0, JDBC, JNDI, JMS, JAXB, SAX/DOM, Web services.
Expertise in XML and related technologies like XSL, XSLT and parsers like JAXP (SAX, DOM) and JAXB Experience in Database Design, Creation and management of Schemas, writing Stored Procedures, functions, Triggers, DDL, DML SQL queries. Experience in writing SQL and PL/SQL programming.
Experience in developing REST services in NodeJS using Express JS, in which JSON is used.
Experienced in MEAN stack advancement (MongoDB, Express.JS, AngularJS &NodeJS).
Involved in building and deploying Apache ANT/ MAVEN scripts for deployment and customizing WAR/ JAR file management for web applications. 
Well experienced in using JUnit for performing unit-testing framework.
Extensive experience in testing on multiple operating systems including UNIX, Sun Solaris, and Windows. Experience in developing crystal reports.
Expertise in using configuration management tool like CVS and GIT for version controlling.
Expert in Various Agile methodologies like SCRUM, Test Driven Development, Incremental and Iteration methodology and Pair Programming as well as implementing Waterfall model.
Experience programming in the JBOSS Enterprise SOA environment including JBOSS Workflow and Drools Business Rules engine.
Experienced Implementing MicroServices. We had worked in an Enterprise Application where we had to implement microservices in order to separate the tasks and not to have dependency on other Parallel on-going tasks of same Application.
Participated in understanding of ExtJS technologies and development tasks
Experience in using various Web and Application Servers like Apache Tomcat, IBM -Web Sphere process server. 
Experience in Bootstrap (responsive design), Backbone, and AngularJS frameworks
Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, JBuilder, Jasper, Rational Application Developer(RAD), Angular JS for Java/J2EE application development
Knowledge and familiarity with programming of Java, SQL, XML, JavaScript, JavaScript, Camel, Flex, Spring and/or Hibernate.
Deep knowledge in Angular 2. 
Sound skill in Swing MVC architecture, design patterns, Collections Frameworks, Exceptions handling and multi-threading.
A very good understanding of Groovy and Grails.

Certification:


                                                                                      


TECHNICAL SKILLS

J2SE Technology		: Multithreading, Reflections, Collections, Serialization, Networking, Beans
Middleware Technology	: JMS, MQ Messaging, Tibco, Solace, Active MQ
J2EE Technology		: Servlets, JSP, Tag Libraries, JDBC, JNDI
Architecture & Framework	: MVC, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, OSGI
Database			: Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c, SQL server 2005/2008, MySQL
IDE				: Eclipse, My Eclipse, NetBeans
Operating Systems		: Windows, Linux, UNIX	
Web/App Servers		: WebLogic, Web Sphere, Tomcat, JBoss, Apache
GUI				: HTML5, XML, XSD, AJAX, JavaScript, Node.js, Angular JS, JQuery, CSS3
Query Languages		: SQL, PL/SQL	
Programming Language 	: C, C++, Java, J2EE
Design patterns      	: MVC3, Business Delegate, Business Object, Value Object, Front Controller,
                                                  Database Access Object, Factory, Singleton, Session Facade.                   
Tools		: Maven, ANT, Log4J, JUnit, TOAD, SOAPUI 4.0.5, JUnit, Rational Rose,
                                                  Visio                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE:

                                                                                                                                           

Responsibilities:
Responsible for writing J2EE compliant Java code for application development effort which involved working with JSP, Servlets, JDBC, XML, EJB, etc.
Responsible to maintain HTML5, CSS3 in JQuery as well as keeping the pages dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML.
Involved in developing the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery
Experience in using design patterns and UI frameworks such as MVC, Struts, Hibernate, NodeJS, Spring.
Developing Angular2 web app, front end representation for internal products. 
Expertise in AngularJS controllers, directives, factories, services, routing, DOM manipulation using JavaScript, jQuery and AngularJS. 
Experience in MEAN (MongoDB, Express, Angular 2 and NodeJS) Stack application development 
Used Apache Kafka (Message Queues) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information between multiple business applications. 
Involved in developing an automation tool, in Java and Scala on Akka Framework
Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Backbone.js, Require.js and Node.js.
Involved in developing an automation tool, in Java and Scala on Akka Framework
Worked with the JavaScript frameworks like HTML 5, CSS 3, JQuery and Angular JS.
Configuring and Installing all the Endeca related stuffs.
Worked with web designers to develop user interfaces and prototypes for a web-based internal system. Developed the application as Single Page Application (SPA) using Angular2/4 MVC framework. Worked on front-end pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and Bootstrap. 
Used Angular2 UI Router to establish routing between nested html views.
 Experienced Angular2 pass data between components, created pipes to transforming data, nested containers, and set Angular Services
Excellent Java development skills with core Java8, JDBC, Hibernate  and solid experience in MVC architecture, using Spring 3, Spring MVC, Struts 2. 
Developed and deployed solution using several new technologies, including Linux - Ubuntu, Drupal and Apache SOLR.
Used Hibernate ORM tools which automate the mapping between SQL databases and objects in Java. Integrated the Spring and Hibernate framework. 
Worked on Solr, Elastic Search, Kafka, Flume, MangoDB and Cassendra
Extract the data from Oracle and push to Apache Kafka Queue using Golden Gate.
Utilized most of the AWS services like S3 as a data store for storing the files in Dynamo DB.
Managed MICROS Xstore and Xbri Point of Sale and Asset Protection project
HR project successes with integration of KRONOS and PayChex systems into corporate systems and MICROS Xstore point of sale solution
Experienced in using Scala, Java and Python frameworks for Bigdata/Spark engine requirements. 
Development of Apache Struts web applications from concept to rollout 
Used Scala for coding the components in Play and Akka.
Customized Micros XStore POS Java software to suit Talbots’ requirements
Created Data Transfer Objects(DTO) and implemented business logic using Java8 in Spring framework. 
MEAN stack implementation, AngularJS Full-Stack generator (generator-angular-full stack), and actually run, edit, and deploy an application. 
Excellent in deploying the applications in AWS as EC2 instances and create snapshots for the data that have to be stored in AWS S3
Used microservice architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message broker
Resolve Micros xStore  issues, restore databases, re-image and replace devices
Implementation of Struts - Configuration Files, Validation Files, Interceptors, Filters, Listeners for Modules. 
Maintenance and schema design for PostgreSQL and MS SQL Server.
Used scala scripts for spark machine learning libraries API execution for decision trees, ALS, logistic and linear regressions algorithms
Strong skill sets on Object Oriented Programming and development knowledge on C++ and HTML.
Good experience with JDK 1.8.
Experienced developing against SOLR Search Platform APIs
Optimized Ext.JS themes and prepared performance applications
Expert in implementing unified data platform to gather data from different sources using Kafka and Java Producers and consumers.
Experienced in developing SOAP-based Web Services and Web Service Clients (JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL and JAXB).
Design and Development of Objects using Object Oriented Design in Java. 
Used Elastic search for Real time analytics and a Full text search functionality.
Preparing the migration document for migrating application from Struts to Spring and Responsive web designing the application.
Utilized AWS cloudwatch to monitor the performance environment instances for operational and performance metrics during load testing.  
MEAN stack implementation, AngularJS Full-Stack generator (generator-angular-full stack), and actually run, edit, and deploy an application.  
Involved in using HTML, DHTML, Java Script, AJAX, ExtJs, JQUERY, JSP and Tag Libraries to develop view pages.
Loaded data in elastic search from Datalake and Optimized the full search function using Elastic Search.
Supporting and implementing web application built on MEAN stack 
Systems Integration & packaging using Hybris along with Endeca Search, Content.
Deployed GUI code to WebLogic application environment and standalone components to JBoss Server.
Wrote JUNIT Test cases for Spring Controllers and Web Service Clients in Service Layer using Mockito
Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDD, Scala.
Experience in Java8 features like Parallel Streams, Lambdas, functional interfaces and filters.
Developing Hibernate Configuration files for MySQL 5.1, Oracle 10g &11g and MongoDB.
Node.js is used to develop server side applications
Used Angular.JS as the development framework to build a single-page application.
Developed Framework components for Struts Presentation tier, Business tier and Resource tier
Developed SPA (Single Page Web Applications) using RESTFUL web services plus Ajax and Angular JS actions.
Implemented monitoring and established best practices around usage of Elastic Search
Involved in writing Angular.JS controllers, views, and services for Lockbox and wellness incentive programs.
Used Java 8 Lambda expressions and functional interfaces, wherever possible. Also, used Java8 features like Streams, Producer, Consumer, Bi Consumer etc.
Involved in SPA (Single Page Web Applications) using RESTFUL web services plus Ajax and Angular.JS
Solid proficiency with IA/UX and web usability best practices.
Participated in development of a well responsive single page application using AngularJS framework, JavaScript, and jQuery in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3 standards, with front-end UI team.
Used Angular.JS framework to bind HTML (views) to JavaScript objects (models)

Environment: Java 8 , JSP, Angular2, JQuery, JSON, HBase ,Elastic, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, MICROS,  Spring ORM, JAXB, XML, JAX-WS, SOAP Web Services, Mean Stack, RESTful web services, SOLR


Responsibilities:
Designed use cases for the Application as per the business requirements.
Participated in requirement gathering and framework implementation sessions through Agile TDD methodology.
Experienced developing against SOLR Search Platform APIs
Developed and delivered SOAP based Web Servicesfor our new clients used Apache-CXF and SOAP UI to test the services.
Utilized most of the AWS services like S3 as a data store for storing the files in Dynamo DB.
Expertise in AngularJS controllers, directives, factories, services, routing, DOM manipulation using JavaScript, jQuery and AngularJS. Experience in MEAN (MongoDB, Express, Angular and NodeJS) Stack application development 
Loaded data in elastic search from Datalake and Optimized the full search function using Elastic Search.
Development of Apache Struts web applications from concept to rollout 
Created AWS Launch configurations based on customized AMI and use this launch configuration to configure auto scaling groups and Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, DynamoDb, Route53, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups.
Experience in creating Models, Controllers, Templates, Custom Directives, Components, Filters and Services in AngularJS.
Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDD, Scala.
Involved in developing an automation tool, in Java and Scala on Akka Framework
Used Elastic search for Real time analytics and a Full text search functionality.
Expert in implementing unified data platform to gather data from different sources using Kafka and Java Producers and consumers.
Developed Framework components for Struts Presentation tier, Business tier and Resource tier
Worked on Solr, Elastic Search, Kafka, Flume, MangoDB and Cassendra
Extensively used Core Java such as Exceptions, and Collections
Used scala scripts for spark machine learning libraries API execution for decision trees, ALS, logistic and linear regressions algorithms 
Implementation of Struts - Configuration Files, Validation Files, Interceptors, Filters, Listeners for Modules. 
Used JSTL and developed required tiles and tile definitions for templating and defined configuration in the struts configuration.xml.
Excellent in deploying the applications in AWS as EC2 instances and create snapshots for the data that have to be stored in AWS S3
Used Apache Kafka (Message Queues) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information between multiple business applications. Involved in developing an automation tool, in Java and Scala on Akka Framework
Created reusable Angularjs html templates using custom templates.
Supporting and implementing web application built on MEAN stack 
Resolve Micros xStore  issues, restore databases, re-image and replace devices
Processing data ingestion and entity resolution using Hadoop and Pig.
Implemented Apache Kafka to provide a unified, high-throughput, low-latency platform for handling real-time data feeds 
Applied Hadoop MapReduce to reduce processing time from two weeks per year of data to one day.
Developed business layer using EJB stateless session beans and deployed on the Application server (Web logic). 
Experienced in using Scala, Java and Python frameworks for Bigdata/Spark engine requirements. 
Used Scala for coding the components in Play and Akka.
MEAN stack implementation, AngularJS Full-Stack generator (generator-angular-full stack), and actually run, edit, and deploy an application.  
Built restful web services using MongoDB/NodeJS and implemented the front-end using jQuery and AngularJS controllers, directives, and service.
Created Composite Applications, Home Security components and Adapters by using Oracle SOA technology. 
Used microservice architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message broker
Developed major websites and services by including Mongo DB as backend software.
Subject matter expert in enterprise search engine analysis, design, development and systems integration. Search engines include Autonomy IDOL Server, MOSS 2007, Endeca, Lucene/Solr and Microsoft FAST 2010 for SharePoint 2010, SharePoint 2013.
UI Layer implemented with Struts, Struts validation, Struts Tiles, JSP, XML, CSS, XHTML, JavaScript, DOJO, AJAX.
Subject matter expert in enterprise search engine analysis, design, development and systems integration. Search engines include Autonomy IDOL Server, MOSS 2007, Endeca, Lucene/Solr and Microsoft FAST 2010 for SharePoint 2010, SharePoint 2013.
Used XML web services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is 
Used SWING for GUI based coding.
Worked closely with the Business/Users team in translating technical requirements into application code
Developed web layer using Struts framework to manage the project in MVC pattern. 
Implemented integration of Struts Action classes in Presentation Tier.
Utilized Node.js to create a fast and efficient chat server.
Used Struts Tiles Framework for designing the layout of the application. 
MEAN stack implementation, AngularJS Full-Stack generator (generator-angular-full stack), and actually run, edit, and deploy an application. 
Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and JavaScript
Used Hibernate as persistence framework for DAO layer to access the Oracle10g database.
Worked on Eclipse for development and deployment of application in Web Logic Application Server. 
Creating Angular Services using factory services to implement the business logic.
Responsible for coding, testing and documenting various packages, procedures, and functions for libraries. 
Experienced developing against SOLR Search Platform APIs 
Proficient in using SVN for Version Control. 
Actively involved in code reviews and also in bug fixing.

Environment: Java, JSP, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, Ant,Elastic, Struts, POS, DOJO, Drools, Hbase, Solr, Marklogic, Spring, MICROS, Hibernate, RSA, WebSphere Application Server, DB2, Agile, XML, LDAP.  
                                                                                                                                      

Responsibilities:
Actively participated in meetings with Business Analysts and Architects to identify the scope, requirements and architecture of the project. 
Ensured Service design fits into overall SOA driven program.
Followed MVC model and used spring frameworks for developing the Web layer of the application.
Built JavaScript application with Backbone.JS, as well as using Node.JS for server side rendering.
Used Bootstrap and Angular, React.js and Node.js in effective web design.  
 Extensively used JavaScript to provide dynamic User Interface and for the client side validations. 
Solid experience on JavaScript Frameworks like MVC/MVVM JavaScript framework and Exposure to Node.js.
Designed and developed REST-ful style Web Service layer and WSLD. 
Made heavy use of Amazon Web Services (EC2, S3, & RDS in particular).
MEAN stack implementation, AngularJS Full-Stack generator (generator-angular-full stack), and actually run, edit, and deploy an application. 
 Used AJAX framework for asynchronous data transfer between the browser and the server. 
 Extensively used Java Multi-Threading concept for downloading files from a URL. 
 Used J2EE design patterns like Front Controller, MVC, Business Delegate and Session Facade. 
 Write front end code for developing new pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery. 
 Involved in preparing Ant builds scripts (XML based), deployments, and integration and configuration management of the entire application modules. 
 Used spring, Hibernate module as an Object Relational mapping tool for back end operations over SQL database.
Worked with NoSQL databases such as Cassandra, MongoDB..
Developed code to fetch data from back-end and populate on UI using AJAX, Angular-JS, and JSON.
Supporting and implementing web application built on MEAN stack 
Individually developed interactive web pages using Angular JS to perform operations in a database.  
Worked on research team that developed Scala, a programming language with full Java interoperability and a strong type system.
Experience with Internet Application Development such as HTML5, FLEX CSS3
SPRING, IBATIS/HIBERNATE AND FLEX REQUIRED 
Developed REST-based node.js micro services using domain modeling.
Generating scala and Java classes from the respective APIs so that they can be incorporated in the overall application.
Used XML web services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is 
Used SWING for GUI based coding.
Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox and IE Developer Toolbar for IE.
 Involved in Database design for new modules and developed the persistence layer based on Hibernate.
 
Environment: Java, J2EE, spring, Hibernate, JSP, Eclipse 3.3, WebLogic, Maven, JUnit, CVS, CSS, HTML, XML, XSD, JavaScript, Oracle10g and Windows.
                                                                                                                                    

Responsibilities:
Developed the web layer using Spring MVC framework.
Implemented JDBC for mapping an object-oriented domain model to a traditional relational database.
Created Stored Procedures to manipulate the database and to apply the business logic according to the user's specifications.
Front end development with jQuery, Knockout.js, React, Node.js.
Involved in analyzing, designing, implementing and testing of the project.
Developed UML diagrams like Use cases and Sequence diagrams as per requirement.
Developed the Generic Classes, which includes the frequently used functionality, for reusability.
Experience on scripting (e.g. Bash, Powershell, Perl, Ruby, Python)
Expertise in web front-end technologies such as , Javascript, Ajax, JSF, CSS, HTML and/or Flex and developing browser compatible applications
Involved in Database design and developing SQL Queries, stored procedures on MySQL.
Designed and implemented the application's configuration system, including Swing based GUI.
Involved in creation of GUI using Java  Swing.
Functional and Non-functional testing of web based applications, Database and Hbase based Processing tools, Solr Search Engine, Cloud based web based applications.
Peer code reviews using JIRA
Developed code to fetch data from back-end and populate on UI using AJAX,  and JSON.
Worked on fixing bugs and used JIRA to update them.
Developed user interface using JSP, HTML, XHTML, XSLT and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application. 
Highly skilled in using Version Control Management tools like SVN, CVS, and GIT

Environment: JAVA, Java Script, HTML, JDBC Drivers, SOAP Web Services, UNIX, Shell scripting, SQL Server