Shiva G
Shivag6600@gmail.com
(682)-593-9220
Summary

8 years of Experience in Object Oriented Programming and Web development using Java/J2EE, EJB, Java Servlets and JSP.
Well experienced in developing software solutions for e-commerce applications using Java, J2EE technologies.
Extensive experience in Session Beans Entity Beans (Container Persistent and Bean Managed Persistent) and Message Driven Beans.
Wrote and deployed EJBs on WebSphere 6.x/7.x/8.x and WebLogic 9.x/10.x application server.
Good hands on experience with Hibernate.
Good experience in spring modules like Spring DAO (JDBC Template), Spring MVC & Spring AOP.
Extensive experience in designing professional UI web applications using front-end technologies like HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, XML, DHTML, XHTML, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, AngularJS, Angular 2.0, Backbone JS, Require JS, React JS and Bootstrap. Dedicated focus on n-tired distributed architectures using J2EE, JDBC, XML, JNDI, JMS, RMI, Enterprise Java Beans, JSDK, WebSphere, Apache, Servlet Runner, HTML, JavaScript.
Experience in Bootstrap (responsive design), Backbone, and AngularJS frameworks
Worked on AJAX, Direct Web Remoting & JQuery in web screens development.
Implemented presentation layer using Java Server Faces (JSF).
Experience in the development and implementation of platforms like SOA architecture and Web Services.
Strong analytical and interpersonal skills along with excellent communication skills.
Highly motivated, willing to work independently, and in a team environment.
Solid background in Object-Oriented analysis and design. Very good at various Design Patterns, designing methodologies and tools such as Unified Modeling Language (UML) and Rational Rose.
Excellent knowledge and experience of developing applications with Model View Controller Architecture (MVC).
Experience in project management tools like MS Visio and MS Office for status reporting and planning.
Valuable experience in Rational Clear Quest, Rational Clear Case & CVS.
Good Exposure to Microsoft Windows 2008/XP/Vista /7/8 operating environments.
Major strengths are familiarity with multiple software systems, tools, and the ability to learn recent technologies quickly and adapt to new environments.
Excellent client relation skills and the drive to complete tasks effectively and efficiently as well as the ability to communicate effectively with all levels of management and the client.
Exceptionally well organized, strong work ethics and willingness to work hard to achieve objectives.
Experience developing complex solutions and working with several projects and environments such as Windows, Linux, UNIX at the same time.
Experience mentoring interns and junior developers.








Education:

Bachelors of Technology, Jawaharlal Technological University        

TECHNICAL SKILLS:



Experience:

Academy Bank, Kansas City, MO				                                   
May 2016 – Present
Java Full Stack Developer


Responsibilities:

Responsible for Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development, and Customization of the application.
Participated in change management by creating ITSMs.
Facilitate scrum ceremonies (grooming, sprint planning, retrospectives, and daily stand-ups).
Track and communicate team velocity and sprint/release progress.
Developed user interface with EXTJS JavaScript framework. Wrote code to pass JSON response from spring controllers to EXTJS client side.
Wrote web form classes and transformer classes that passed results from Spring JDBC Template query to front end and then transformed the results into presentable data.
Wrote code to save user interface data into csv format spreadsheet.
MVC design pattern is implemented with Spring MVC, Servlets, JSP, DHTML, HTML, AJAX, JavaScript, and Angular JS, CSS for the Presentation/Web tier, Application/Business layer (Hibernate, Web Services) and Data layer.
Worked on standalone spring boot application without xml configuration and embedded tomcat server.
Used spring 3.x for dependency injection and integrated with Hibernate and Struts.
Developed frontend & middle tire components by using Spring MVC, Spring Core, and DAO & Hibernate 3.x.
Used Spring Security for authentication and access control and password hashing with BCrypt algorithm.
Used Hibernate 3.x in data access layer to access and update information in the database.
Developed message driven beans as Queue listeners for JMS Queue.
Used advanced Java 8 features like Lambda expressions for array operations, collections. Enhanced concurrency methods etc. throughout the application for well-defined programming.
Worked with Java 8 Lambda for adding functionality processing capability and Stream API to facilitate pipeline processing and used Filter method to eliminate elements based on the criteria
Involved in File Manipulation, consuming and developing RESTful Web Service using SPRING BOOT and Hibernate
Worked on developing a hierarchy of controllers, with generic interfaces, and default implementations, termed as RESTful Web services, with Chart Specific parameters passed as query string.
Experience working with relational databases and writing native SQL statements for Oracle 12c.
Worked with various software design patterns such as Singleton, Factory, MVC (Model View Controller), Façade, and specific expertise developing in the J2EE Architecture (Java) Servlets, JSP, JDBC).
Developed Single page application and structured the JavaScript code using AngularJS
Developed deployment build scripts using Maven.
Worked in UNIX environment as well as Windows. Automated searching log file for Exception and returning stack trace with UNIX shell script.
Fixed defects by analyzing end to end flow and finding root cause. Used Application Lifecycle Management (ALM) tool.
Worked on designing classes using UML, Sequence Diagrams, writing use cases and test documents.
Hands-on project experience in implementing JavaScript frameworks and libraries such as jQuery, Angular 2, ReactJS, Node.js. 
Advanced development experience with Angular2 including custom directives, services, filters and working with animations, routing, pagination. 
Used Angular 2 to bind HTML elements data to JavaScript Objects and developed dynamic Single Page Application. 
Performed form validations using reactive forms for sign in and inputting ticket rising information from Angular2 framework. 
Developed single page applications using Angular 4, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap4. 
Developed API driven responsive Web Application by integrating Angular2 with Bootstrap and API's. 
Experience as UX designer closely worked on ADOBE Photoshop, Illustrator, and Wireframes. 
Worked extensively with ReactJS and developed real time applications using ReactJS architecture- Flux for building UI and designed reusable components using ReactJS. 
Implemented various screens for the front end using ReactJS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) library. 
Experience in Redux architecture and implemented SPA's with React Router. 
Hands on experience in developing dynamic SPA's with AngularJS, jQuery and JavaScript for enhanced user experience. 
Extensive experience in building Single Page Applications (SPA) using frameworks like AngularJS and Custom MVC frameworks.

Environment: Java 7/8, JavaScript, Angular JS, HTML 5, CSS 3, MS Project, Spring 3.x, Spring MVC, Junit, Log4J, Restful web services, UML, Hibernate 3.x, Maven, JSP, Servlets, SQL, Oracle 12c, Windows XP, JIRA.




Sense Corp, Dallas, TX			                           
Nov 2015- Apr 2016
Java/J2EE Developer


Responsibilities:

Developed User Interfaces using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
Developed responsive web pages using HTML and CSS. Wrote new CSS for existing web pages with focus on enhancing layout and appearance.
Wrote Spring MVC Controllers, Handler Interceptors, and RESTful service to serialize JSON data.
Created user interface with ExtJS. Sent AJAX request and parsed response text to JSON.
Developed database objects such as tables, views and stored procedures using Oracle database.
Wrote JavaScript validation for webpages. Utilized AJAX for updating HTML tables.
Developed single page application in AngularJS. Developed custom tags, filters, and widgets.
Used Bootstrap to develop responsive web pages.
Utilized JSON for exchanging data between server and client side.
Used firebug and chrome debugger for debugging.
Create REST web services for populating and saving data from/to database.
Developed centralized project for resources such as CSS, JavaScript and images from where other projects shared resources.
Used Hibernate framework for back end development and Spring dependency injection for middle layer development.
Used JMS for the asynchronous exchange of critical data and events among J2EE components. Publisher-Subscriber method was used for data loading and Point-To-Point method of JMS was used for event processing
Developed business logic with the help of Spring and Data Access was implemented using Hibernate.
Designed and developed several RESTful web services that support JSON for other developers to access to speed up development using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Web Services, JSON, Log4J, RESTful, MySQL, and Maven. 
Involved in consuming, producing Restful web services using JAX-RS 
Involved in configuring and deploying the application using Web Logic, Apache HTTP. 
Provided Transaction Management using the Hibernate configurations and Involved in integrating the business layer with DAO layer using JPA
Utilized JavaScript, JQuery, Angular 2, HTML, NodeJS and CSS to implement the data from the Teradata Database dynamically on the front end. Created Single page applications using Angular JS. 
Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) Design Pattern using AngularJS. 
Implemented Angular 2 Routing and navigation, Components, Services. Implemented the following   Angular 2 pipes such as date, string length slice and number for POC's  
Created & Exposed Restful Web API endpoints using HTTP verbs of GET, PUT, POST & DELETE. 
Implemented JSON for data transfer between the Angular component and web services. 
Used Maven for building and managing dependencies of the application
The application was developed using Eclipse IDE and used JIRA for bug and issue tracking.
Used CVS to maintain source and version management and used Eclipse as IDE
Use Hibernate to persist data to Oracle 11g database and wrote HQL queries.
Wrote hibernate configuration files and Entity classes. Used Hibernate Criteria API for dynamic queries.
Used Eclipse IDE for developing, testing, and deploying applications.
Use Log4j for logging statements during development.
Created test cases for DAO Layer and service layer using JUNIT.
Used Spring DI, Spring DAO (JDBC Template) in the persistence layer.
Wrote asynchronous message processing code with Spring JMS.

Environment: Java 1.6, Hibernate, Spring, Spring MVC, Spring JMS, Oracle, AJAX, JSP, JSTL, EJB, Web Services, HTML/DHTML, JavaScript, Angular 2, Bootstrap, JQuery, CSS, XML, Log4j , Visio, JUnit , RAD 8.0, Maven, JNDI , WebSphere, SVN

NTT DATA Services, Nashville, TN						            
Feb 2013 – Oct 2015
Java/J2EE Developer


Responsibilities:

Follow AGILE Methodology and participated in SCRUM Meetings.
Involve in UML modeling and development of Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams as part of the Implementation Plan.
Extensively use HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, and AJAX & JavaScript as part of accessibility project in the Web layer.
Developed Restful Web Services using Apache CXF, JAX-WS XML, XSD and JAXB.
Integrated Struts with spring. Struts for front end and spring for backend.
Implement the Web layer using Spring MVC and Inversion of Control (IOC) throughout the application in all the layers for bean wiring.
Use Spring Core, JBPM & multi-threading as part of enhancing Bundler process with in Content Management System.
Use Hibernate to persist data to Oracle 11g database and wrote HQL queries.
Use Hibernate Annotations to map DB tables to the DTO’s.
Use testing web service end points through SOAP UI.
Define data mappings using existing mainframe copy books and designed reusable XSD schemas.
Used Apache CXF as the Web Services framework to implement the REST APIs involved.
Create and modified ANT scripts to build the project with dependencies.
Implement SOA using Web Services to interact with JDA for ODS Catalog Data and TRU Specific registry/wish list module implementation.
Create REST web services for populating and saving data from/to database.
Involve in installing and deploying the application into WebLogic Application Server along with data source Configuration setup.
Design and developed and deployed Session, Entity Beans, and Web Components on WebLogic.
Design and developed database objects like Tables, Views, Stored Procedures, User Functions using SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle and used them in EJBs and WEB components.
Use Log4j for logging statements during development.
Write Ant scripts to automate the builds and installation of modules.
Involve in writing Test plans and conducted Unit Tests using JUnit.

Environment: Java 1.7, Oracle 11g, Struts, Spring, Spring JMS, Spring Security, AJAX, JSP, JSTL, Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Hibernate, MQ Series, HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS3, XML, SVN, Log4j, JUnit, Eclipse, ANT, Web Services, SOAP UI, WebLogic



Conduent, Austin, TX				                                      
May 2012 – Jan 2013
Java/J2EE Developer


Responsibilities:

Involved in the Analysis, Design, Coding, modification, and implementation of user requirements.
Followed Agile (SCRUM) methodologies for Software Development.
Designed UML diagrams as part of the functional and technical Design using Visio.
Developed and implemented GUI functionality using JSP, JSTL, Tiles, AJAX and JQuery.
Developed the presentation layer using Struts MVC pattern integrated with spring to invoke the service layer beans.
Configured and Implemented Spring AOP for transaction management, logging, and performance tracking.
Used Spring DI, Spring DAO (JDBC Template) in the persistence layer.
Used Hibernate Query Language and wrote HQL queries for data retrieval from the database.
Implemented SOA using web services to interact with Customers.
Developed the REST web service using Spring IOC to provide user a way to run the job and generate daily status report.
Involved in migrating the web application from Java 1.5 to Java 1.6.
Designed and implemented a Cassandra NoSQL based database and associated REST web service that persists high-volume user profile data for vertical teams.
Worked in configuring the data source & JNDI Configurations in WebSphere application server.
Worked in integrating the Core Rlog (EJB application) which requires EJB configuration changes in the application as well as in the application server.
Involved in design and development and other tasks related to application server and Application Framework Configurations.
Used CVS for versioning and concurrent access to the project files.
Involved in the performance monitoring of the application using RAD tools.
Used Log4J utility to log error, info, and debug messages.
Used Maven to build the application and deployed on WebSphere.
Created test cases for DAO Layer and service layer using JUNIT.
Environment: Java 1.6, Struts 2.0, Hibernate, Spring, NoSQL, AJAX, JSP, JSTL, EJB, Web Services, HTML/DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, XML, Log4j , Visio, JUnit , RAD 7.0, Maven, JNDI , WebSphere, CVS





WIND TECHNOLOGIES, India				
Sep 2010 – Apr 2012
JAVA/J2EE Developer


Responsibilities:

Assisted in gathering the Customer Requirements and preparing Functional Design Document.
Designed UML diagrams like use case diagrams, process flow and activity diagrams as part of the functional Design Document using Rational Rose.
Followed AGILE Methodology and Extreme Programming.
Created JSON Objects in JavaScript and used Prototype, a JavaScript Framework used along with AJAX.
Used Direct Web Remoting (AJAX) integrated with spring for server-side validations.
Implemented Persistence using Hibernate framework, backend being Oracle 10g and involved in Database Design for RRM Module.
Developed the web layer in Spring MVC and implemented Spring IOC throughout the application.
Used Apache CXF for creating the Web Services to interact with other modules.
Developed and deployed the application in WebSphere using ANT Script.
Setup Data Source in WebSphere Application server and created. Car file to be used by other developers.
Used UNIX shell script in scheduling jobs, backend database being Oracle 10g. Used UNIX shell scripts for retrieving log files for testing.
Used ClearCase for version management between various integration and development streams.
Wrote test cases for DAO layer using JUnit framework and used easy-mock for mock object creation.
Implemented Rational Unified Process utilizing Rational Rose (OOAD – Object Orient Analysis.
Worked with offshore team in assisting them to understand the business requirements and design for modules development.

Environment: Java, Oracle 10g, Hibernate 3.0, Spring 2.5, AJAX, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, JSON, Rational Rose, CSS, XML, CVS, ANT, Log4j, JUnit, WebSphere, JNDI, ClearQuest, UNIX Shell Script.

Reference: Available upon request





