Sravani B 											     Full Stack Developer

PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY:
6 years of experience in all phases of the software development life cycle (SDLC) starting from requirement gathering to software design, development & implementation, delivery, test planning and production support. 
Involved in implementation of various web based, multi-tier applications using Java/J2EE. 
Experience in Java based technologies, which include Core Java, JSP, JDBC, Restful Web services and frameworks such as Hibernate, Spring-Boot. 
Hands on experience in Project Planning, Problem solving, tracking to resolve long-pending issues encountered during projects.
Experience in designing, developing and implementing Multi-tier, Client/Server, Enterprise and Web applications using Java/J2EE.
Extensive experience in working with MVC Architecture, Hibernate and Spring Framework.
Extensive experience with Hibernate ORM tools.
Very good understanding of web-based technologies such as JSP, JSF, HTML, CSS, PrimeFaces and JavaScript.
Expertise in developing and implementing web applications using Java and J2EE Technologies includes Core Java, JDBC and JSP.
Experience in configuring, and troubleshooting JMS, JDBC and HTTP adapters.
Strong knowledge in Object Oriented Programming concepts.
Extensive knowledge in Core Java, Collections API and Multithreading.
Excellent skills in creating and accessing various databases using SQL Queries, NoSQL Couchbase Database, Postgres,
H2 in-memory Database, PL/SQL on various databases like MySQL, Oracle 10g/11g.
Extensive experience in programming, deploying, configuring, fine-tuning middle-tier J2EE Application using Apache Tomcat 6.x/7. x.
Hands on experience IDE’s like IntelliJ and Eclipse.
Highly result oriented and pro-active, proven abilities to learn new technologies quickly and implementing them successfully in production.
Strong Inter personal communication skills & ability to work independently as well as in a group.
Experience working on Hadoop, Spring-XD, Kafka, Hive and Spark.
SKILLS:







PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE:
Equifax, Alpharetta, GA								                                  Jan 2016 – present
Full Stack Developer

Description: The project Talon is a platform being developed for Equifax customers to track their consumers against a high-risk list of individuals or entities while on-boarding. It provides a Search/match feature to the customers as a core capability and interacts with a third party Informatica tool to score and categorize an individual or business against a compliance database to perform Due Diligence.

The project follows a 2-week agile model of implementation based on Scrum. I have contributed for major modules of the core capabilities. The core implementation revolves around Spring Boot, Maven, NoSQL Couchbase Database, Postgres, in-memory H2 and developing User Interface for case management and search-match using Liferay, JSF PrimeFaces, Swagger UI.
 
Responsibilities:

Developed multi-tier J2EE application for the important modules of the project like Screening, Matching, Keying and set up customer and business Configurations using Spring Boot, Maven. 
Experience working on Hadoop, Spring-XD, Kafka, Hive and Spark.
Used JPA for database persistence, Postgres PGAdminIII, H2 in-memory database, NoSQL Couchbase database to store and retrieve customer and business hit records. 
Produced and Consumed Restful (JAX-RS) Web Services using Postman Rest Client, Swagger UI, to interact with different applications from Informatica and third-party tools. 
Performed unit testing using JUnit, test functional behavior and performance using JMeter.
Have been a responsible Scrum Master for a few sprints.
Installing, configuring and maintaining Continuous Integration, Continuous Deployment, Automation and Configuration Management tools.
Expertise in deploying enterprise applications on WEB /Application servers like Apache Tomcat.
Interacted with customers to compile Runbooks and other design document. 
Coordinated test plans and build for System testing, UAT, Pilot with QA. 
Experience in Chef Management tool.
Experience in XML related technologies like XPath.
Involved in peer code reviews.

Environment: JDK 1.7, Agile Development Process, JSF, Spring 3.0, Web Services, Spring-boot, Hibernate 3.0, JMS, JSP, HTML, CSS, JSF, XML, XPath, LOG4J,XSLT, JavaScript, Junit 3.8, JMeter, GIT, NoSQL Couchbase Database, Postgres, Oracle, H2 in-memory Database, Hadoop, Spring-XD, Apache-Kafka, Zookeeper, Ambari, Liferay, Chef, Jenkins, SonarQube, Cucumber, Intelij-IDE .


Wells Fargo, Atlanta, GA	                                                                                      	                   Jan 2015 – Dec 2015
Application Developer

Responsibilities:

Gathered system requirements for the application and worked with the business team to review the requirements and went through the Software Requirement Specification document and Architecture document.
Designed and developed web-based software using Spring MVC Framework and Spring Core.
Worked on the JAVA Collections API for handling the data objects between the business layers and the front end.
Using Agile methodologies to plan work for every iteration and used continuous integration tool to make the build pass before deploying the code to other environments.
Involving in design, development, testing and implementation of the process systems, working on iterative life cycles business requirements, and creating Detail Design Document.
Used Spring ORM module to integrate with Hibernate.
Implemented Hibernate framework to connect to database and mapping of java objects to database tables.
Involved in writing the Maven build file to build and deploy the application.
Worked on GIT version Control Systems.
Designed the user interface of the application using HTML5, CSS3, JSF 2.1, JavaScript.
Used Log4J to capture the logging information and JUnit to test the application classes.
Designed and developed Web Services to provide services to the various clients using Restful.
Prepared Unit and System Testing Specification documents and performed JUnit and System testing of the application.
Reviewed the code for ensuring adherence to Java coding standards.
Developed Functional Requirement Document based on user’s requirement.

Environment: JDK 1.7, Agile Development Process, JSF, Spring Framework, Web Services, Hibernate, JMS, JSP, HTML, CSS, JSF, XML, LOG4J, JavaScript, SQL, Postgres, Junit, GIT, Eclipse-IDE.

Synctra Solutions, India									             Jan 2011 - July 2013
Application Developer                                                                                                   

Responsibilities:

Involved in various phases of SDLC such as requirements gathering, modelling, analysis, design of application using SCRUM AGILE methodology.
Designed and implemented application using JSP, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations, Spring AOP, Hibernate, Oracle.
Implemented Maven build tools to build jar and war files and deployed war files to target servers.
Have worked on Oracle 10g database for storing and retrieving the application data.
Created connections to database using Hibernate Session Factory, using Hibernate APIs to retrieve and store data to the database with Hibernate transaction control.
Wrote multiple SQL queries.
Experience creating multiple types of joins.
Involved in Web Administration like setting up Data Sources, deploying applications.
Used Continuous integration tool Jenkins for deploying the project.
Utilized various JavaScript and jQuery libraries bootstrap, AngularJS for form validation and other interactive features.
Used putty to connect to different environments of the application.
Wrote Unit test cases using Junit
Worked closely in scrum agile environment.

Environment: JDK 1.7, Spring Framework, Hibernate, Oracle, SQL, JavaScript, jQuery, Junit., Eclipse IDE, Powershell.

EDUCATION:
Western Michigan University, Kalamazoo, MI, USA 					             Aug 2013 – May 2015              
Master of Science, Electrical and Computer Engineering
	
Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad, India				             Sep 2008 – May 2012
Bachelor of Technology in Electrical and Electronic Engineering 