Background
18 years of IT experience with expertise in n-tier full SDLC utilizing latest Java and related technologies and libraries to design and implement highly scalable, clustered, multithreaded applications. 
Expertise in Core Java, JEE APIs (JSP, Servlets, EJB, JMS, JNDI, JDBC, JAXB, JAXP, Custom Tags), HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, AngularJS, XML technologies, App servers like WebLogic, Web sphere, Tomcat, JBoss.
Expert in Object Oriented Analysis, Design and Programming.
Expertise working on IoT(Internet of Things) projects on IBM Bluemix platform  using Photon Sensors on Hardware side, Cloudant big data database, Node.js, SocketIO, Express, Backbone & MySQL.
Expertise working on Proof of Concept (POC) projects.
Solid experience of improving Application Performance.
Expertise Understating and Achieving Application Performance objectives, Measuring Performance Metrics, Identifying Application Bottlenecks
Expertise Profiling Java Applications using Profilers like JProbe.
Expertise in Database Tuning, Application Tuning, JVM Tuning and Inefficient SQL Queries.
Strong working Knowledge of various Java, JEE design patterns.
Solid experience developing Proof of Concept projects.
Expertise developing SOAP and RESTFUL web services using SOA.
Expertise working on Struts, Spring and Hibernate frameworks.
Experience working on NoSQL database such as MongoDB and Cloudant.
Solid knowledge of Business Intelligence and Data Warehouse concepts.
Experience developing iOS and android applications.
Strong Experience working on B2B and B2C Ecommerce projects.
Experience working Agile (XP, SCRUM) and RUP methodologies.
Strong experience working with Customers and writing Requirements/Use Case/Design/Test Case documents and Use Case/Collaboration/Sequence/Class diagrams.
Solid experience designing database in Oracle and SQL Server and writing Stored procedures and Triggers using PL/SQL
Strong analytical, communication and interpersonal Skills.
Meticulous attention to detail and outstanding customer service skills.

Certifications Achieved:



Technical skills

Project Summaries 















Education and Trainings
Equivalent to BS in Computer Science.   
BE in Electronics and Communications Engineering, 
L. D. College of Engg. – Ahmedabad, 1997

In-house training of web services deployment on tomcat using IBM wstk, UML, RUP, Object modeling using Rational Rose, GoF Patterns, and multi agent artificial intelligent technology using ontology editor from MagentA
Professional training on BEA Weblogic 6.0 architecture and administration.
In-house training on Sybase, Informix databases.
In-house training on ASP IIS, NES, Apache, Tomcat, ANT, Microsoft PWS 
Professional training on Oracle 7.3, Developer 2000 and Visual Basic 5
Professional training on IBM Mainframe on simulated environment