Varun
OBJECTIVE:  	
Seeking a position at your Company where I can maximize my 8+years experience. I believe in hard work that uplifts my spirit and dedication enabling me as a catalyst for any company’s growth I work for.

PROFILE SYNOPSIS:
Experienced in all the phases of software development life cycle with Analysis, Design, Development, Integration, Implementation and Testing of various client/server, N-tier and Web Applications.
Strong programming skills in Java and J2EE with extensive ability to develop scalable applications.
Proficient inJava and J2EE technologies including JSP, JDBC, JPA and JMS.
Experienced inHTML, XHTML, DHTML, XML, CSS, Angular, JavaScript, jQuery, JSP and Servlets.
Experienced in developing web applications using Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI and AJAX.
Worked in MVC architecture with Magento, Angular JS and SPRING and Spring AOP.
Expertise to make SPA’s betterusing AngularJS directives and filtersand integratedwithSpring forms.
Experienced with Front-End frameworks like AJAX, JavaScript, ReactJS, BackboneJS and Angular JS.
Experienced in web Application servers like Web Logic,JBoss, WebSphere andTomcat.
Experienced with web services (SOAP/RESTful) and used to scale the applications for better BOA.
Worked on Service OrientedArchitecture (SOA) such as Apache Axis web services which useSOAP, REST, and WSDL and exposure to JAXB, JAX-RPC, and JAX-RS & JAX-WS.
Expertise in design and development of enterprise level spring based web applications using Spring REST,Hibernate, EJB, Struts, Servlets, JSP and JSF for User Interface Applications.
Proficient inSpring AOP, Security, Event Handling, Spring MVC, Spring IOC Container.
Developed and implemented stand-alone applications with Spring Micro services and their patterns.
Worked on Spring Ribbon for load balancing and used fail safe methodology using Circuit Breaker pattern with Hystrix/Dashboard on designing and implementing Micro service applications.
Used Apache Kafka for integration and Data Processing with Spring and for Multi-Threaded Message Consumption and worked on Zookeeperto maintain services.
Build hypermedia-driven and implemented connectors between Hateoas and Spring REST services.
Experienced with distributed transaction management with isolation/propagation levels with Spring JTA.
Proficiency in developing/maintaining using Oracle, MySQL and SQL Server.
Experienced in AWSDynamoDB to capture the any modification on DB. 
Adding permissions to AWSSQS to interact with the Queue and involved in writing custom policies.
Proficient in SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures and Triggers while dealing with automation on DB.
Experienced with NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Couch DB and Cassandra on large data platforms.
Experience with Docker images, Containers, push/pull with Spring Boot, used Jenkins for CICD and AI.
Good knowledge on hosting Python applications using WWGI module.
Experience in using Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Sonar jobs for java code quality.
Experienced in using Eureka Servers while deploying in EC2. 
Hands on experience with Netflix cloud and fall-back technologies like Eureka, Hystrix and Ribbon.
Extensive working with Amazon web Services like using Elastic Beanstalk, EC2 and AMI with Linux.
Strongly associated with usage of Selenium, Jenkins, Junit and Curl for Unit and System Testing.
Proficient on Automation tools like SeleniumWebDriver and SeleniumGRID using Java for developing automation scripts in Eclipse IDE with TestNG, Maven and Jenkins for testing Web Based Applications.
Experience with the Integrated Development Environments like Eclipse, NetBeansand IntelliJ.
Experienced with CICD - ANT/MAVEN/GRADLE/JENKINS/HUDSON/CVS/GIT/GITHUB.

TECHNICAL SKILLS: 


PROJECTS:


Responsibilities: 

Worked in a highly dynamic AGILE environment and participated in scrum and sprint meetings.
Developed an attractive GUI using Angular JS that users can interact dynamically at runtime.
Developed custom directives, Factories and Services in AngularJS and implemented code according to coding standards and created AngularJS Controller to isolate the scopes to perform operations and extensively used Core Java such as Exceptions, and Collections. 
Developed an application were involved in design changes using HTML5, CSS3 and fraction of JavaScript.
Worked extensively to achieve DOM Show, hide elements and Event Handlingusing Angular JS.
Extensively worked in front end JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS, BackboneJS and ReactJS etc.
Worked on server-side validations, handle actions,events and Encapsulationbyimplementing React JS.
Involved in the design, development and implementation of a Client front end using JavaSwing.
Developed Swing Suite for look and feel as well as binding data to the GUI. 
Designed multiple screens using various Swing Components and layouts.
Worked on Thread handling to maintain continuity of execution and extensively implemented Multithreading concept to handle Transaction Management with isolation and propagation levels. 
Worked on business logic and calculations, performs analysis, handles data transfers, and generates XSL for presentation layer and SQL commands for database layer. 
Experienced on spring framework applications like Spring Core, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Spring Security and Spring Boot anddid integration to Micro services into existing system architecture.
Creating REST based Web Services by establishing links using Hateoas from spring based Applications.
Experienced in implementing Micro services, Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) with XML based Web Services (SOAP/UDDI/WSDL) using Top Down and Bottom Up approach. 
Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.
Experience in creating RESTful web services using Jersey, spring framework and JAX-RS.
Java Beans are used as container of business logic and supporting the services or applications.
Workedwith Docker to deployMicro-services in modern containers to increase Isolation.
Worked on integrated Hystrix dashboard to monitor springmicro-services using CircuitBreaker.
Worked with Spring Ribbon and Kafka broker service to handle heavy traffic.
Involved in developing API’s and REST	 API proxy using APIGEE edge and for sending mobile notifications.
Experienced with cloud services like Cloud Foundry and AWS.
Designed and implemented intranet applications using RubyonRails and PostgreSQL on AWS Cloud managed code versioning with GitHub and deployment to staging and production servers. 
Worked with DROOLS engineforspring integration and validate business rule before executing in runtime.
Developed the Web Services Client using REST, RSDLfor verifying the new customer history to a connection. 
Worked on XML parsers (JAXB) for data retrieval and JAXB parser for marshalling and unmarshalling. 
To establish a connection to server,SQL statements that were passed through hibernate.
Writing Queries to get the information from MongoDB for adjusting the data in DB. 
Worked withCURL to move data from a server using http and https protocols.
Experienced with event-driven and scheduled AWSLambda functions to trigger various AWS resources.
Worked with AWScloud service in creating EC2 instances and providing them roles and sometimes participated in writing custom policies and deployed applications on Elastic Bean Stalk and EC2.
Performed Query operations on AWS Dynamo DB and captured the modification data on Dynamo DB.
Involved in AWSSQS to interact with queue and giving roles to it and involved in writing Custompolicies.
Created instances on AWSEC2 and configure using CMSAnsible and Automation installation using CMS.
Participated in troubleshooting issues on AWS, Netflix Eurekaand Cloud environments.
Involved in writing Java API for Amazon Lambda to manage some of the AWS services.
Mentoring Development on integrating Xstore POS \ Xoffice products with Retailers.
Worked on POC for multiple international Xstore POS implementations, including designing the test lab and test strategy for new implementations, maintenance releases.
Worked system logging using Elastic search, KibanaLog stashtocreate dashboards in Splunk and Kibana. 
Developed Pythonscripts and shell scripts for datamaintenance and unittesting and created UNIXSHELL scripting and Python scripting for automate process.
Constructed web pages for application using MVC&JavaScript, jQuery, NodeJS.
Used Node.js to develop the relevant back end RESTful API.
Developed crypto rest services using Nodejs and integrated services with HSM(Hardware Security Module).
Implemented modules into NodeJS to integrate with designs and requirements and used NodeJS Express Framework. 
Involved in the development of distributed server-side components and deployed the various Session and Entity Bean Components in the IBMWebSphere Application Server.
Performed different types of testing on various test scripts on Selenium WebDriver and TestNG.
Used MAVEN as a Build Process and used generating Documentation, Reporting, and adding Dependencies.
Used SeleniumGrid to execute Selenium automation suites on different platform; performed browser combinations in parallel and for cloud execution used SAUCELABS. Used GIT as a version Control.
Worked with Appium for mobile testing for Android and IOS. 
Using JUnit test in Eclipse, developed Unit test cases and test suite. Curl was also implemented to test.
Used Jenkins as the integration tool and improved scalability of applications on cross-platforms.
Involved in System Testing, Integration Testing, and Production Testing on WebLogic Server.
Environment: Java/JDK,J2EE, Swing, Log4j, AngularJS,Web Services, Hystrix Dashboard, Spring Kafka, AWS, Netflix Eureka,Netflix Ribbon, Hibernate, REST, JSON, RESTful, Eclipse, MAVEN build tool, JUnit, Ruby on Rails, Kibana, Splunk,Apigee, Hateoas, Drools, Jenkins Continuous integration tool, WebLogic Application Server,MongoDB,Linux OS, Agile Methodology, Curl, GIT, PL/SQL, Docker.


 Responsibilities: 

Responsible for all stages of design, development, and deployment of applications. Active role in Test Driven Development termed as TDD apart from Agile Software Development.
Defined and constructed layers, server-side objects and client-side interfaces based on J2EE design patterns.
Developed and implemented Swing, spring and J2EE based MVC framework for the application. 
Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance.
Designed, analyzed and developed the front-end and back-end Servlets, Bootstrap for designing, HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS and AJAX, for developing presentation layer.
Involved in payment status report for asynchronous exchange of information using JMS. 
Participated in creation of Spring Configurations using Java8 features, Lambda expressions, Streams, filters.
Used JavaScript, jQuery for user interactions in pages. Creating a responsive web application integrating TwitterBootstrap with Angular JS and media queries.
Created the AngularJS app using Yeoman, Grunt and Bower and used Angular UI for component model.
Actively involved in using MVC, HTML5 to enable client-side date to meet specific criteria by applying various validation variables and used the CSS classes to provide visual feedback on validation. 
Used JSP to dynamically generate web pages based on HTML and XML Document types. Use JSF (Java Server Faces) to implement component based User Interface Applications.
JSON used as the main data-interchange format in place of XML.
Used Sonar to analyze and measure source code quality.
CRUD was used as part of servlets where DML operations were required on RDBMS like SQL DB’s.
Involved in developing UI pages using AngularJS and calling the Rest API's from backend. 
Created RFP microservice to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Microservices.
Developed SOAP based JAX-WSWeb Service interfaces for integrating multiple systems, code re-usability.
Used Dependency Injection feature for wiring and defined dependencies using constructor arguments.
Implementation of data access layer has been cumbersome for a while and this was greatly resolved using Spring JPA through implementation of data access layers there by reducing boiler-plate-code.
Used Micro-services to ensure the scalability of application on cloud infrastructure.
Developed Restful Web services for other systems to interact with our system and secured the service with Spring-Security Oauth-2.0. Added WS-Security using XWSS to secure the Web services.
Configured hibernate with Spring ORM as part of spring and Hibernate Integration for best results.
Used Tomcat Serveras the chief enterprise level server while dealing the database activities with hibernates.
Used Spring MVC components to implement business layer and Spring Boot for Micro-services. 
Utilized spring core, AOP and security to build robust business operations with transactional support. 
Defined several UML diagrams; Activity diagrams, Sequence and Object diagrams.
Developed unit and integration tests for existing microservices using JUnit, Mockito and Docker environments.
Developed the data access classes using JDBC and SQLquerylog4j for logging and SVN for version control.
Worked on Rest Web services for backend services used Oracle for database services and RESTful web services using Jersey for JAX-RS implementation. 
Created Hibernate persistent and configuration files for ORM implementation.
Used Git as Version Control System for the application. Used JMeter to test performance of SOAP protocol.
Used spring framework including spring core/IoC, Spring Web, Spring Security. 
Worked with and implemented on developing and maintaining robust and effective PageObjectModel Design Pattern and Created Keyword-Driven and Data-Driven Framework using SeleniumWebDriver configured under TestNG environment and used MAVEN for adding dependencies.
Participated in Defect tracking team using ALM Quality Center for Defect tracking, Defect priority and status.
GUI design and development using Java Swing, JFC Used for open source web testing.
Developed AWS LambdaFunctions in a stateless style and ensure there is no affinity between and compute infrastructure to manage the servers and run the code in the AWS.

Environment: Java, J2EE, JDK, RCP, AWS SDK, Git, Swing, JFC, Spring, Hibernate, Core Java, SOAP/Rest, Web Services, JavaScript, UML, Bower, HTML, CSS, SASS, Sonar, WAS 8 WSDL, JIRA, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, OWASP, JMS, Oracle, Angular JS, NodeJS, Tomcat, Spring,Spring Boot, Spring Batch, AJAX, Apache JMeter, jQuery, JUnit, Maven.


 
Responsibilities:
Involved in System Analysis and Design methodology as well as Object Oriented Design and development using OOAD methodology to capture and model business requirements.
Involved in Java Multithreading to cascade multiple changes on multiple records in only one transaction
Responsible for JAVA, J2EE, JSF, JBPM, EL and Java FX coding / development.
Using Struts Framework developed and implemented the web-based application following the MVC.
Used Spring MVC as Web module, involved in design, development of new Action classes to interact with business logic and Used Hibernate as ORM to map Java classes to data base tables.
Implemented J2EE patterns, Data Access Object (DAO), Session facade, Business Delegate and Value Object.
Implemented the service layer using Spring with transaction and logging interceptors.
Fixing the bugs and developing new enhancements using JAVA/J2EE, spring, Hibernate,IBM Web Sphere.
Used spring framework for middle tier and Spring-hibernate for data access.
Used Twitter Bootstrap to create responsive web pages which can be displayed properly in different screen sizes.
Implemented SOA to develop REST Based Web services using Apache Axis. 
Used multithreading to improve performance in generating the reports in Java.
Extensively developed User defined Custom JSP tags to separate presentation from application logic.
Designed and developed Web Services (SOAP, WSDL). Created and compiled XML Schema to generate JavaBean classes using Apache Axis.
Installation, Configuration & administration of WebLogic application Server.
Used AngularJS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as SPA.
Developed HTML and JavaScript. Developed Scripts for UNIX platform deployment.
Used ANT for compilation and building JAR, WAR and EAR files.
Used Log4J, Splunk for logging and tracing the messages.
Implemented Test Scripts based on the User Requirements as specified by the Business side and Requirement document and analysingBusiness Requirements and handling it as per Requirements.
Project coordination with other Development teams, System managers and web master and developed good working environment.

Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, JSF, Spring AOP/IOC, Spring MVC, Hibernate, XML, JBPM, HTML, JDBC, Web services, Web Services (SOAP/WSDL and REST), Multithreading, Web Logic Application Server, Junit, Maven, Log4J, SVN, Oracle, UNIX.


Responsibilities:
Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle.
Developed N-tier client-server business application software using Model View Controller (MVC) Architecture. 
Extensive use of core Java Collections, Generics, Exception Handling, and Design Patterns for functionalityInvolved in writing different Design Patterns like Filter, Action, Business Delegate, Service Locater, Data Transfer Objects (DTOs) and Data Access Objects (DAOs).
Used Hibernate in persistence layer and developed POJO's,Data Access Object to handle database operations.
Worked on System security with the use of SSL (Secure socket layer), encryption and used role-based security.
JSON being light in nature was used as the chief source of communication between the server and application.
Expertise in developing reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on microservices, SOA architecture using SOAP and RESTfulandPreparation of Java and JSP coding standard checklist. 
Involved in the development of Servlet, Struts Action classes, Business Objects, Web Services.
Involved in writing JUnit Test Cases and Ant Build Script. 
Involved in writing JSP using Bean, Logic, HTML, and Iterate Tags. 
WSDL has been used to expose the Web Services. 
SOAP has been used as a protocol to Communicate in the form of XML messages.
Developed client request validations and processing using JavaScript and HTML.
Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions, and Hibernate cache concepts.
Implementing or exposing the Micro services to base on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.
Developed Struts Action Forms, Action classes and performed action mapping using Struts. 
Hands-on Experience onSelenium Web Driver to write user stories. 
Used MAVEN as a build tool in adding dependences with PAGE OBJECT MODEL design pattern.


Environment: Java, JSP, HTML, CSS, Servlets, XML, SOAP, WSDL, Oracle, Eclipse, JAX-R, JAX-WS, PL/SQL, WebSphere Server, Struts, DAO, AOP Spring, MVC Spring, Hibernate, Junit, Maven.


Responsibilities:

Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML, CSS and JSP.
Developed web application using Struts, JSP, Servlet, Java beans that uses MVC design pattern.
Wrote JavaScript for client-side validation.
Wrote SQL for JDBC prepared statements to retrieve the data from database.
Configured Bean mappings within the framework and Hibernate persistence.
Monitored the logs using Log4j and fixed the problem.
The application was deployed on the Tomcat.
Used CVS as version control system. 
Knowledge on bug fixing and ProductionSupport.

Environment:J2EE, JDBC, Struts, Hibernate, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JSP, Servlet, Tomcat, Oracle, EclipseIDE, CVS,Log4j.




Responsibilities:

Design and Development of the Object-Oriented applications using OOA and OOD techniques in all Business
Areas using CVS.
Designed and developed web pages using HTML, CSS and JSP.
Wrote Client-side validation scripts using JavaScript.
Stored data in Oracle database and accessed using Oracle JDBC drivers.
Imported Client data into the database from XML file by using the XML Parser.
Worked on bug fixing and ProductionSupport.

Environment: JDK, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, SQL, HTML, JavaScript, Eclipse, XML and CVS.
