VISHNU J
Email to jammigumpulavishnu452@gmail.com 
Contact: +1 (475) 655-4689
Senior Java Developer

Summary:

Eight Years of professional IT experience as a Programmer Analyst and Software Engineer with full project lifecycle development in J2EE technologies. Played important roles in Requirements analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Deployment of software applications.
Project implementation skills using both core and advanced Java technologies such as Vitria BW, Servlets, JSP, EJB, JNDI, JDBC, XML, JUnit, Web Services and Hibernate with various middleware technologies.
Worked on projects for Insurance, Healthcare, Warehousing and Banking business lines.
Extensive knowledge and implementation skills in frameworks (e.g.: Struts, spring, independent frameworks and Tiles.
Extensive experience with server-side programming and technologies such as J2EE, Servlets, Java Beans, JDBC, JNDI and Enterprise Java Beans (EJB).
Extensive experience in Design Patterns and their application in enterprise software design and application architecture.
Excellent experience with Application servers and Web servers and a wide variety of development tools ( WebSphere Application Server 5.1x/4.0/3.5, WSAD 5.1x/4.0, Eclipse, RAD 7.0, RAD 6.1, Tomcat 5, 6).
Expertise in using scripts like jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, Dojo.
Superior analytical skills in Object Oriented Application Development using UML- Rational Rose.
Expertise in developing database applications using Oracle, DB2.
Experience with unit testing using JUnits and writing build scripts for ANT.
Have hands on experience on Adobe Flex, and iBatis.
Have good knowledge in developing Multi-Tier Web applications using VB.NET, ASP.NET, ASP, Visual Basic 6.0, VBScript, JavaScript, Internet Information service (IIS) (Developed non-commercial websites using ASP.net).
Have good working knowledge of Adobe Lifecycle data services (LCDS)/ blaze DS.
Have good working knowledge of JSF.

Education:
Bachelor’s in Engineering, JNTUK University, India


Technical Skills:



Professional Experience:

Equifax, St.Louis, Missouri	                                                                                   Apr 2016 - Present
Senior Java Developer  

Gutenberg 
This is the data modernization project, the objective of which is to simplify the file loading experience for employers by taking the different files and mapping them to the common data architecture format. Loading the common data architecture files into the non-purposed repository and using the services to deliver verifications.

Responsibilities:
Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.
Worked on Agile and Pair programming with respect to the successful development of sprints by tracking stories in JIRA and updating JIRA on day to day basis.
Responsible for designing dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, DOJO, JSON, AJAX to the requirement of the client. 
Worked on the MVC architecture of Angular JS in developing the Single Page Application (SPA), build the controllers and directives which are totally customized to meet the needs of the application.
Used Spring Web MVC framework for the applying MVC Implementation to the web application.
Implemented the Dependency Injection concept using the Spring IOC container.
Implemented large scale pub-sub message queues using Apache Kafka.
Worked on NoSQL database schema to help migrating legacy application's datastore to Cassandra.
Used the JSP framework to design the presentation layer and to implement server side dynamic pages
Designed and developed Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using RESTful (JAX-RS) service interface
Designed Splunk dash boards for metrics analysis.
Used Hibernate 4.0 with JPA framework and developed the DAOs to access/connect to the database layer.
Worked with Oracle11g and used SQL Developer to query, monitor and update the Oracle database.
Extensively used Intellij IDEA as Application Development Environment for developing the custom applications using the J2EE Frameworks such as Spring 3.0, Servlets, JSP, EJB, JDBC, and JNDI.
Used JUnit with Mockito testing Framework to test the Applications.
Extensively used selenium and cucumber frameworks to automate and implement behavior model testing.
Used GIT for version control and code management.
Used Jenkins for continuous integration and Maven for build process.
Used Sonarqube to check the code quality continuously.
Used Apache Tomcat to deploy the applications.
Coordinated with QA team on daily basis using JIRA for issue tracking and bug fixing and Project status tracking.

Environment: JDK 1.8, J2EE, Spring 3.0, Hibernate 4.x, HTML 5, CSS, XHTML, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, DOJO, XML, Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, JMS, Intellij IDEA, GIT, Service now, JUnit, Tomcat 6.x, Cassandra, Apache Kafka, Splunk, PL/SQL developer.


Horizon, West Trendon, NJ                                                              		    Feb 2015 - Apr 2016
J2EE/Vitria Developer

E-HRO (Human Resources Organization system) 
Cardinal Health is a leader in the health care market. Vitria receives the HR data from the PeopleSoft system, makes required transformations to the data and generates the files for different participating vendors based on a scheduling calendar. A separate web application is used to authenticate, publish and keep track of the files. 

Responsibilities:
Designed and developed a web based Spring MVC framework application to publish, display detailed track of the files and Clients.
Wrote controller classes for all the screens. Wrote JUnits for testing the classes.
Installed Weblogic Server and configured the JDBC Connection pool.
Written Ajax, JavaScript, JSON objects for the web pages. 
Redesigned and Implemented Tiles and Layouts for the legacy project.
Created XML and XSL documents. Parsed the XML documents using Apache Xerces parser
Written the Transformation code in Java based on the Java reflection technology.
Responsible for code promotion and deployment during test cycles and production. 
Reworked on Web services & SQL stored procedures to improve performance. 
Developed common utility functions in Java for file processing and data manipulation.
Involved in the creation of new connection models such as file to channel, channel to database, and channel to file. 
Wrote and implemented custom tags for presentation logic.
Developed Unit test cases using JUnit framework.

Environment: UNIX, Vitria Businessware 4.3, Spring 2.5, Weblogic 7.0, java 1.4, java 1.5, Junit 4.3.1, Maven 1.1, CSS, JSPs, JavaScript, jQuery, Eclipse 3.3, XML, XSLT, Ajax.


Social Interest Solutions, Sacramento, CA		                                            Dec 2013 - Feb 2015	                                          
Sr. J2EE Developer

Product Control Management Repository (PCMR) 
The goal of the project is to provide a “LOOKUP” from EDAM (server for marketing and merchandising department in Etrons) Check-in Screens into the PCMR to retrieve product related metadata fields, provide as “UPDATE” service call from EDAM that will collect all product attribute Changes (updates and deletes) from the PCMR and mass update metadata in EDAM for all affected assets. 

Responsibilities:
Extensively involved in business users requirements gathering and technical walk-throw
Used Eclipse IDE for coding, debugging and testing the application modules
Used different user interface technologies  JSP, HTML,CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS and JSON for developing the GUI of the application
Implemented JQuery AJAX calls to retrieve the data from the data base
Implemented and worked on claims processing, fraud analysis and reports generations in the application
Developed  Action classes, Form bean classes and Struts configuration file using Struts framework
Implemented the application modules using Spring Core layer(IOC), Spring Security, Spring AOP, Spring ORM, Spring Batch in order to develop the application
Implemented Spring Services and business operations Dependency Injection 
Used Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate to perform data base activities and transactions
Implemented Hibernate POJO Classes ,Hibernate Configuration file and Hibernate Mapping files
Involved in the configuration of Struts Framework, Spring Framework and Hibernate mapping tool
Used different design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Data Access Object, Value Object etc.
Used Java Messaging Services(MQ Series and JMS) for developing messaging services to interact with different application modules 
Implemented SOA using Web Services and its frameworks Apache Axis, SOAP, WSDL and JAX-RS API
Implemented Restful web services to perform some business activities
Implemented Business Process Diagrams, Business Flow Diagrams and Business Rules using IBM BPM
Involved in configuring hibernate to access database and retrieve data from the database
Used Teradata/Oracle Server as data base systems
Created data base tables, stored procedures according to the application requirements
Developed stored procedures and triggers with PL/SQL
Implemented SQL injection security checks, html sanitization and other security mechanisms
Implemented the application using Agile development methodology
Involved in performance tuning, query optimization, maintaining coding standards and resolving JVM issues
Developed Maven and ANT Scripts to do compilation, packaging and deployment in Web Sphere app server
Involved in peer to peer code reviews and cross checked whether coding standards are being followed
Involved in code versioning, Check In, Check outs and code merging using Sub-Version
Used JIRA tool for creating change tickets and handling production bugs and development tasks
Involved in production support, resolving the production issues and maintaining the application server
Configured JNDI resources, Data Base resources, MQ Series and other configurations on the Application Server

Environment: Java 1.7, J2ee, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Spring,  Hibernate, Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, REST, Apache Axis, IBM Lombardi, SQL, PL/SQL, XML, XSD, JAXB, JavaScript, Web Sphere 8.x, RAD, HTML5, XML, AJAX, JQuery, Angular JS, JSON , Maven, SVN, SQL Developer, Teradata, Oracle, UML, JUnit, Log4j, TestNG, JIRA, Hudson


General Electric, Albany, NY			 	                                           Nov 2011 - Dec 2013   
Senior Java Developer  

RightFax 
It is a mechanism for allowing faxes to be sent, received and manipulated on your desktop. In order to do this incoming analogue faxes are converted to a digital medium by the RightFax server before being passed on to the end user. In the same manner outgoing faxes are converted from a digital medium to an analogue format that can be interpreted by fax machines. This means that the end user no longer requires a fax machine to send or receive faxes.

Responsibilities:
Worked on Agile Methodologies by creating and working on new stories in JIRA and updating JIRA on day to day basis.
Experienced in developing Software components using agile development practices.
Performed the research and development tasks to design and develop new software components.
Experienced in using J2EE Web Framework Spring 3.0 (Data Access Objects and Spring Web Flow).
Involved in developing the persistence logic and mapping files in JPA ORM.
Extensively used Eclipse as an Application Development Environment for developing the custom applications using the J2EE Technologies.
Extensively created Session and Message Driven Beans in EJB.
Extensively worked on developing the custom web based applications using HTML 5, CSS, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, DOJO, Angular JS and XML.
Responsible for writing SQL queries and PL/SQL packages in generating Data Access Objects (DAO).
Experienced in writing Unit Test Cases using Frameworks like JUnit.
Designed and developed the screens using JSP with client side validations using JavaScript.
Experienced in Designing and Consuming RESTful (JAX-RS) based Web Services.
Experienced in Using SOAP UI to test the Web Services.
Used Jenkins for continuous integration and Maven for build process and SVN as version control.
Used Apache Tomcat Server to deploy the applications.

Environment:	JDK 1.6, J2EE, Spring 3.0 , JPA, HTML 5, CSS, JavaScript, DOJO, Angular JS, XML, Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, Eclipse, UML 2.3, Jenkins, subversion (SVN), HPLAM, SoapUI, JUnit and Tomcat 6.0.41.


Triveni IT, Rutherford, NJ                              	   	                                            Oct 2010 - Nov 2011   
Java Programmer

Money Send 
It enables consumers to move funds quickly and safely-to friends and family or to their own accounts and receive disbursements from businesses and governments, leveraging the trusted and reliable Network. Transfer of funds from one account to another account owned by the same consumer. This includes cash in at a mobile money agent which complements the Money Send Agent Cash Out program from Sender. A Sender may be a consumer, business, government, or non-government organization while the Recipient is a consumer. An Originating Institution (OI) acts on behalf of the Sender to send funds to a Recipient holding an account at a Receiving Institution (RI). 

Responsibilities:
Worked on Agile and Pair programming with respect to the successful development of sprints by tracking stories in JIRA and updating JIRA on day to day basis.
Involved in Object Oriented Analysis Design and Modeling using UML.
Involved in design and development of the custom web based applications using Servlets and JSP.
Used JavaScript for error handling, Input validation and Event Handling.
Extensively used Intellij IDEA as Application Development Environment for developing the custom applications using the J2EE Frameworks such as Spring 3.0, Servlets, JSP, EJB, JDBC, and JNDI.
Used the JSP framework to design the presentation layer.
Designed and developed the web based applications using AJAX, HTML 5, DOJO, JQuery, XML, Rich Faces and JSP.
Designed and developed Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using RESTful (JAX-RS) service interface with Spring MVC to the underlying customer event API.
Used Rest Client and Soap UI Tool for testing the custom Web Services.
Responsible for defining Hibernate Mappings, SQL queries and PL/SQL packages in generating Data Access Objects.
Configured and Used JMS to send messages from one application to other application internally.
Extensively created Session and Message Driven Beans in EJB.
Used Hibernate 3.0 with JPA and EJB framework and developed the DAOs to access/connect to the database layer.
Designed and developed the screens in HTML, JSP with client side validations using JavaScript.
Used Bamboo for continuous integration and Maven for build process and SVN as version control.
Wrote the SQL queries and stored procedures in Oracle 10g database environment.
Used JUnit with Mockito testing Framework to test the Applications.
Designed and developed technical documentation to Production support team to handle various activities in project plan.
Participated in meetings to monitor data quality and integrity in data purge and retention cycles. 
Performed Code Reviews using Crucible Fish Eye with tech lead for each sprint to meet flawless code deliverable.
Updated Technical Design Document to reflect the modifications that are made during development.
Used Jboss 6.3.0 to deploy the applications.

Environment: JDK 1.6, J2EE, Spring 3.0 , Hibernate 3.0, JPA, HTML 5, CSS, JavaScript,  XML, Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, EJB, Intellij IDEA, UML 2.3, subversion (SVN), JIRA, JUnit, SOA, JMS, Restful services, Rest Client, Soapui, Mockito and JBoss 6.3.0.

	
Value Labs, Hyderabad, India.                        			                             June 2009 - Sep 2010
Java Programmer

eHRMS
This State-of-Art HRMS software is an Enterprise-wide Human Resources Management Solution for effective implementation of any administration Decision, Planning, Organizing, Staffing and Directing in an HR Department. This State-of-art software can also be launched as an Application Service Provider. 

Responsibilities:
Responsible for the systems study and customer requirement study.
Responsible for the analysis and design of the project.
Involved in the use of Java script for creating Java Server Pages.
Developed Front end Forms in swings using Forte Java.
Extensively worked on Transact-SQL in SQL Server 2000 database wrote stored procedures, triggers and also involved in database design.
Involved in creation of Web Services methods for the web client.
Extensively wrote Java classes in development of middle tier business logic.
Involved extensively using Web and HTML controls while developing the code.

Environment: JDK 1.2, JavaScript, SQL Server 2000, Forte Java, JSP, Servlets & Windows. 
